Part I: Encounter

Chapter One

She knew she was surrounded, but she felt no nervousness or panic. She only thought about how it would save her the time it would take to look for them. “Just like we heard”, Lightning murmured as she readied her sword. There were several Bloodbaths, a monster that looks like a fish with amphibious arms and legs that lives by the water’s edge. On the outskirts of the Coastal City Bowdam, these sorts of aquatic monsters appear quite often. It’s not only humans that want to live here, with it’s warm temperature, water, and resort-like atmosphere, it seems even monsters find it easy living.
She could detect four of the reddish grey lumps in the area. She sensed two behind her. One began to creep about. It was preparing to attack. She sliced her sword down the right side of her vision. Resistance. Now to the left. Her sword flashed, becoming her name, through the Bloodbath’s vitals. Now two are down. She felt something jump at her back. But at that speed there should be no problem. She breathed a small sigh. She whipped around and cut him down, now only one left behind her....
It was then. She jumped back. She heard gunshot, and the Bloodbath burst open. Now one more was covered in it’s own green body fluids.
“We’ll help!”
She heard a woman’s voice along with the racket of the airbike. You aren’t helping, you’re just in the way, she thought, irritated, and lowered her weapon. The Bloodbath’s attention had already turned away from Lightning. She didn’t need to look up to know that the owner of that voice was a lower class woman By the sound of the airbike it was obviously remodeled. It wasn’t one that was designed with safety first in mind for the regular market, nor was it a military model that was made for silence. It was a different sound. The woman riding that wouldn’t be a citizen or a soldier.
It was not, in fact, the woman who had a gun in one hand while controlling the airbike with the other. It was a blue haired man. He was very young. He had feather and jewel decorations all over, and even from afar you could see he was very flashy in appearance. Behind him was a black haired woman holding a huge gun at the ready. The airbike descended quickly, and the woman stood up and fired off her gun. The two remaining Bloodbath’s flew back, one after the other, and grew still. She wasn’t a bad shot. Of course, that was after she’d already wasted half her round.
The airbike flew down around Lightning slowly, and put on the breaks. It was driven by someone who knows what he’s doing.
“Hey there soldier, you were in a tough spot weren’t you?”
The black haired woman put up her gun and smiled. The neckline of her shirt was low and open. Lightning could see a butterfly tattoo on the upper part of her shoulder blades. If the blue haired man could be said to have a lot of decorations, this woman could be said to be showing a lot of skin. Either one was not wearing clothes that someone who uses a gun would normally wear. All of those decorations hanging down would just get in the way of a gun fight. And a large gun like that heats up easily. With that much skin showing she wouldn’t be protected from burns. Amateurs, she decided, and then asked:
“Who are you?”
“We’re Nora.”
Even though Lightning meant to sound hard and cold, the other woman hardly seemed to notice. Her amber colored eyes whirled, as if she were amused.
“If you’re a soldier from Bowdam you’ve at least heard a little bit about us right?”
Confident. Lightning was interested in how she managed to get so confident, but she didn’t have the time to ask.
“Sorry, never.” She said, her voice curt, and she spun on her heel. She could hear their voices behind her.
“But....”
“Weird, I could have sworn we were more famous than that.”
She walked faster so she wouldn’t have to hear their voices anymore. How annoying. They interfered with her mission, and they actually thought they were helping her. She couldn’t stand how they looked so proud of themselves, so she lied to them, and she hated herself for that too. Yes, she had lied. Lied that she had never heard of Nora. She knew of them. She had heard of a group using a small shop on the beach as a headquarters. That shop was actually a cafe, meant for tourists but mostly used by local regulars. Though it’s not the kind of place that would be popular among high school girls.
“We’re like a nora-cat, a stray, that’s how we got our name.” Even more annoying, to remember that now. Lightning took our her wireless. Don’t think of unnecessary things, she said to herself. Call up the sergeant major and inform him the job is finished. That’s the most important thing to do right now.

There were already many soldiers at the reconvening point. The Bloodbaths weren’t far from the place they were reported to be. When it’s against fast moving monsters it isn’t this easy. Monsters hate humans, so you won’t see them in business or residential districts, but the outskirts are a different story. To people living in the quiet neighborhoods built outside of the city, monsters are a huge problem. Though even an amateur can take care of one small one, they usually move in large groups. The only ones living alone are the largest and strongest of monsters. In other words, ones that if you see them then the smartest course of action would be to contact the army immediately. That’s the job usually put to the security force, Lightning’s unit.
Other soldiers came up to her, congratulating her on a job well done. Lightning looked for her superior officer. No, she didn’t really need to look for him. Sergeant Major Amoda could be heard from anywhere. She went in the direction of his hearty laugh.
Lightning frowned. Amoda was talking with a group she’s never seen before. And next to them was a remodeled airbike. It looked a lot like the one that blue haired man had been flying. Who was that man who was talking with the sergeant major all friendly-like? He stood confidently, but seemed to be sweltering. She couldn’t tell whether it was from his clothes or the way he moved. But she could tell just from looking at him that he was their leader.
Their eyes met. Lightning stared back. She admits it was rude of her, but the man got a slightly suspicious look on his face. Realizing something was happening, Sergeant Major Amoda looked back.
“Hey, Commander, welcome back.”
He’s at it again, Lightning thought, shrugging her shoulders. He likes these kind of jokes.
“Commander? What sort of joke is this now, Sergeant Major?” Putting emphasis on “Sergeant Major”. Unlike when she first joined, she’d gotten good at ignoring his jokes. Of course, sometimes it’s necessary to strike back.
“Well you are our raid leader, right?” If he’s going to be like this there nothing really that she could say, so she sighed, and decided to ignore him.
“So who is this?” She looked over to the man next to her. It didn’t matter whether you saw him from far away or up close, he looked no different. He looked like bad news.
“They’re Nora, Sergeant.” A young solider cut in to the conversation.
“Haven't you heard of them?”
Not Nora again, nearly showing her irritation. I’d just got them out of my head and here they are back for more.
“A vigilante group made up of young people from the city.” He had obviously taken Lightning’s silence as a lack of knowledge on her part. Amoda added,
“Their leader is Snow here.” She felt a mixture of elation and disappointment at being proved right.
“Hey.” His off-hand greeting made her even more irritated. Can’t he be a little bit more polite? she thought.
“This is our raid commander. She might be young, but she’s good.” For proof, Amoda touched the handle of Lightning’s sword with his fingertips.
“This is a sword she got recently. A Blaze Edge... though you guys wouldn’t really understand, if any soldier saw this they would know what it meant.”
“Sergeant Major, let’s not talk about...” Lightning knew what he was going to say next and meant to stop him, but Amoda ignored her and continued.
“This is a sword given to only the best soldiers. What I’m saying is, the ones who have this sword have amazing abilities. Isn’t that something?” Now that’s going a bit overboard with praise, Lightning thought. She wanted to stop him before he started going on like that, but she can never get a word in edgewise.
“And her Blaze Edge is special. It has an inscription on it that says, now what was it? ‘White flash..... take on my name.’ wasn’t it?” In her mind she corrected him, ‘Call upon my name’, but she couldn’t say it aloud, it was too embarrassing.
“Please, let’s just leave it at that okay?” Even though he was half joking, she was happy hearing such words from her superior officer. But there is a limit to how far you should go. Especially that Snow guy was in front of her saying “Is that right?” and “Wow that’s amazing.” while looking straight at her. It was just unbearable.
“Alright, alright.” Amoda looked disappointed at first, but then laughed uproariously.
“Ah, well. So that’s why our sergeant here was able to finish up so quickly. You guys were disappointed that there wasn’t much of a catch this time either, yeah?”
“Nah, it’s not only the monsters that were reported that are around you know.”
“Really?”
“Yeah, if we smoke ‘em out, they come one after the other.”
“Hey now, I’m okay with smoking them out, but don’t make too much of a disturbance.” And then he said, of course of course, and agreed wholehearted. Vigilante force? Lightning thought. Don’t make me laugh. Just a group of amateurs who’ve gotten guns and are acting all justice league... She wanted to tell them what she thought of them, but it wouldn’t change anything. You can only criticize when you expect improvement. If you don’t, then it’s just a waste of breath.
“You guys have a lot of energy don’t you. Why don’t you join the army?”
“Rules and uniforms just don’t fit our personality you know?” Why does this guy keep saying things that are sure to get on peoples nerves? Lightning thought. He makes me beyond angry. But Sargeant Major Amoda just laughed and said, “Watch what you say”, while slapping Snow on the back, like a good friend.
“Well now that the monsters are cleaned up, we’ll be going.” At Snow’s words, they all climbed onto the airbike.
“You guys better not get away with yourselves and get caught.” The young soldier from before yelled at them. He was close to them in age, and they seemed friendly.
“PSICOM’s nothing like us, and they won’t over look you.”
PSICOM. Public Safety and Information. The secret service within the army, they only take elite soldiers. The security force works closely with the people, so you could say they have “warmth”. But PSICOM doesn’t have that. No, PSICOM would not allow Nora to exist. But a group made up of nothing but regular citizens don’t know that. And all the members of Nora scoffed at the young soldiers kind words.
“We’ll be okay. We’re stronger than any army.” The leader will be the leader, and members of the group are members. But the young soldier didn’t seem to mind, and just said “A little overconfident aren’t ya?” while laughing.
Lightning thought that, not only are they lacking good sense, but they aren’t even realizing things that any normal person would realize. So, she thought that ignoring them and forgetting about them would be best. But...
“Wait.” When she realized what she was doing, she had already followed after them, and stopped him. She had to say one thing, just one thing.
“Your name is Snow, isn’t it.”
“Yeah?” Snow had been preparing to take off, he turn around.
“You’re the one whose been following my little sister around.”
“Little sister?”
“Serah Farron.” She hadn’t even finished saying Serah’s name before Snow said “Ah!” and leapt out of the airbike, running towards her.
“So you’re Serah’s sister eh? You’re face looks similar, but you both seem so different.” He looked so happy, Lightning felt bewildered. He was like a child who’s found some candy.
“Serah said that her sister was a soldier. When we met I thought maybe it might be you, but you really are her sister.” He said her name so familiarly that the irritation she had felt earlier returned to her. She was just getting ready to shout at him, when he stuck out his right hand.
“Nice to meet you! I’m Snow Villiers.” His hand was huge. She thought that maybe because he was wearing leather gloves that it made his hand look even bigger. No, asking for a handshake while wearing gloves. This man really knows nothing about propriety.
“Don’t get involved with my sister.” She ignored his outstretched hand. She didn’t feel like being friendly with him.
“Why?” Snow’s eyes went from his out stretched fingers to Lightning’s face and back. He must not have understood what she said.
“I said, don’t get involved with my sister.” Snow pulled his hand back. He finally understood it was being rejected. Even so, he didn’t give up, and he said hesitantly:
“And if I did?” I don’t need to answer him, I’ve said what I planned to say, she thought. She tried to turn her back on him, but something hit her toes.
A coconut. It was a kind of coconut that comes from the Bowdam palm tree, and if you say “palm tree” around here people will think of this tree. It grows quickly, and the leaves are big and wide and are enjoyed by people walking on the beach. But they are different from the regular palm tree in that the coconuts are not for eating. They are huge, and it doesn’t matter whether you steam them or cook them they can’t be eaten. Like this man, Lightning thought.
“So, if did? Then what?” She put her foot down on the coconut.
“Don’t.” She slowly put her fingers together and cracked the joints. This wasn’t how she had planned on getting rid of the man chasing after her sister, but it just couldn’t be helped. But then, the foot she had on the coconut fell. Snow had kicked the coconut into the air, and it made an arc, landing in his hand. He was like a kid who was good at ball kicking.
“Sorry, but even if you punch me, it won’t work.” Does he want to say that some woman’s punch wouldn’t be strong enough, or is he saying that he just won’t listen to her words. Probably both.
“Because I’m hard headed.” He smiled as he said it, making her more angry. She turned her back on him, and walked away. I don’t like him, she thought. Taking children and acting as their general, cheering on the weak... horrible man. Why does Serah find him interesting? Of course, she just finds him interesting. She doesn’t actually like him. Of course.
“Sergeant Farron, do you know him?”
They couldn’t have heard what they were talking about, but they were probably able to see them fighting. The young solider looked anxious when he asked.
“No, not really.” She didn’t know him. And she never planned to have anything to do with him again. Not just herself, but her Serah as well.
“I’m going back.” Lightning brushed her hair back, and walked away.

Chapter Two

The sea breeze felt good on her cheek. Serah walked aimless along the promenade, and stretched her arms out wide. The weather was beautiful. The area around the promenade was quiet. In this season all the tourists go to the beach to swim in the ocean. Team Nora’s cafe has probably been busy since morning. Even if it weren’t the season, today is Lebreau’s day to work. Her cooking always manages to bring in the locals.
That’s probably why Snow was late. He probably said “I’ll leave the rest to you guys.” and then tried to leave, but then one of the regulars dragged him into a conversation. Seeing that image in her mind made Serah smile.
“Hey!” she heard a voice say, and she turned around. It wasn’t Snow. It was the member of Nora named Gadot. Since he was riding the airbike by himself, he was probably just returning to work. Or maybe Lebreau had asked him to get some ingredients.
“So, he’s going to be late... right?” She looked up at him and said as the airbike stopped beside her. Though he’s shorter than Snow, his large muscles often make people think of him as a giant. When Serah first met him she thought he looked big and scary, of course now she felt different.
“Got caught by one of the regulars?”
“Bingo. And it will probably take awhile too.” I wonder if it’s one of those long-winded customers, Serah thought. She couldn’t be sure whether Snow or Lebreau had asked Gadot to come as a messenger.
“Okay, I understand. Thank you.”
“Nah, I was coming this way anyway.” And with that Gadot said “see ya”, and took off again on the airbike. Serah waved goodbye and watched him leave.
The quiet returned, and Serah began walking again. There is a place down near the end of the promenade where sea birds gather. She decided she’d wait for Snow down there. She never got tired of watching the sea birds playing in the waves. Serah wished she had brought something that she could have given them as food.
“I love this city,” Serah murmured. The birds playing in the ocean, the color of the sky, the leaves rustling gently in the trees, even the beautifully maintained promenade. But this was Serah’s last year of high school. It has already been decided that should would go to the university in the Capital City of Eden. It’s the road she herself chose, but just thinking of leaving the city made her sad. Snow always says,
“Eden is just over there. We can see each other whenever we want.” and he’d smile. Serah would always tell herself, it’s not like we’ll never see each other again. Never seeing someone again, that is something Serah understood well.
The first one was her father. Even though she wasn’t an age that could understand death, Serah understood that she would never see her father again. When her mother died of a sickness, she felt it even stronger, the pain of losing someone forever. Losing someone right in front of you. Snow too, he was raised by the same insitution that Gadot, Lebreau and Yuge were. They knew the same pain. That’s why they look at people with such kindness. Even if they don’t realize it.
I’m happy, Serah realized. I’m happy, so even having a little distance between us hurts. Being able to meet everyday, and talk about silly things, being surrounded by kind people. It’s been so fun, that to lose even a little bit of it hurts.
“Spoiled brat. You’re being greedy.” She hit herself lightly on the head with her fist. Eden is not really as close as Snow says, but still it’s true that if we want to see each other we can. So I’m going to stop feeling so sorry for myself. I don’t want to lose the time I have left here feeling this way.
She had just decided, when she saw someone running down the promenade. It was Snow. He had come sooner than she’d thought. He probably had tried his best to finish the conversation as quickly as possible.
“Over here!” She jumped up and waved her hands.
“Did you see my sister!?” She couldn’t help yelling. Snow was slightly out of breath from running full force down the promenade, but as soon as he caught his breath, he said “Yeah I saw Lightning.”
“Yesterday, we ran into each other.”
Aha, so that’s why, Serah said to herself.
“Why, did she say something about me?”
“Nothing. But she was in a really bad mood, so I thought it was odd.” Although she was in a bad mood, she acted the same as always. Lightning never pouts like a child when she is upset. She has always been too proud to show how she is feeling. But Serah could somehow tell her sister’s moods. Like some invisible field around her slightly changes. If she were to compare it to anything she would say it’s like static electricity. You can’t see it but if you were to touch it you could feel the shock.
Snow seems to be trying to get himself hurt, Serah thought with a bitter laugh. Lightning and Snow are exact opposites. Snow is faithful to his feelings, what he is thinking shows up in his face and actions, and in his words. His feelings and speech are tied tightly together. He would never lie or cheat. That’s why Serah felt she could trust him, but her sister felt differently. They don’t have anything in common, they’re like oil and water.
“Dammit...” Snow scratched his head. “What should we do?”
At first Serah didn’t get his meaning, but then she understood.
“It’s okay, you can still come.” Next week was Lightning’s birthday. Serah got her to take some time off, just so the three of them to celebrate together.
“Let’s tell her we’re dating.”
“Yeah, it’s horrible having to hide it.”
Serah had planned on introducing Snow to her at the birthday party. She didn’t want to have Lightning take time off just to introduce him, since that would just irritate her and with her being so busy... But Serah didn’t want to wait too long before going through with it.
“If we just talk to her she’ll understand. She really is nice.” Lightning is someone who is not only tough on herself, but tough on others. And once she’s decided something, she’ll almost never go back on it, so others think her stubborn. But that is how she has been able to protect and care for me, Serah thought. Even though she was still the age where you want to be taken care of, she threw her childhood away to become strong for Serah. At their father’s funeral, and their mother’s funeral, she was their holding Serah’s hand. It was like she was saying, no matter what happens, I’ll be there for you. Serah had never forgotten the warmth of her sister’s hand....
Ah, she finally found something that Lightning and Snow have in common. Even if their personalities are completely different, there is just one thing. I love them both, Serah whispered, deep in her heart. They have that in common.
“No, it’ll be okay. We have to tell her. We have to get her to accept us.”
“But if she gets mad, she’ll probably kill me.” Snow said it as a joke. Serah, trying not to burst out laughing, made her face look serious.
“If only that is all that would happen. If she gets pissed, she’ll destroy all of Cocoon.”
“She would wouldn’t she?” Snow furrowed his brows. But that was too much. Serah unintentionally let out a laugh, and Snow threw his head back and roared with laughter. I hope one day the three of us can laugh together like this, Serah thought. No we will be able to. On her birthday.
“Snow!” They heard behind them, after they had been laughing for awhile.
“What’s up Maqui?” Snow yelled as the airbike came closer.
“They’re going out. We picked up on the army’s wireless communication. Seems there’s monsters in the woods. It’s time for Team Nora!”
“Got it” Snow said, as the airbike came in to land.
“Sorry Serah, I’ve got to borrow the General.”
“Okay!” Serah jokingly bowed to him. Maqui was only one year younger than her, so she felt he was like a classmate.
“Sorry to intrude.” Maqui said, laughing. Snow said “bastard” and pretended to punch him. They were like brothers.
“Alright, well, I’m going to go home then.”
“Wait! Ah, can you wait for me? I want to go shopping with you.”
“For what?” Snow closed one of his eyes as he jumped in the airbike
“For your sister’s present.”
“Oh, a birthday present!”
“I want us both to choose one. You can go on ahead to the shopping mall if you want, and look around....”
“No, I’ll wait here. I'll just go walk around the Strange Ruins.”
“Okay,” Snow said, as the airbike took off.
“We’ll clean things up quickly!”
“Be careful!” Serah said, waving her hand, though Snow and Maqui were already in the sky. She laughed, “You really are fast.”

Chapter Three

She had tried not to look like she was in a bad mood, though she was worried that it didn’t work. When she had returned home late last night, she didn’t really talk much with Serah. I’m tired, she said, and shut herself in her room. She didn’t want to say anything she might regret. Lightning thought if she opened her mouth she would start yelling at Serah to break up with that guy. She didn’t want to tell Serah she was against it. She knew her sister’s temperament better than anyone. Though she seems to be gentle and weak, on the inside she is tough. If Lightning told her that she was against it just because she didn’t like him, Serah would try to change Lightning’s mind and keep arguing about it until she did. She didn’t want to have to go through that.
Lightning sighed, and cleaned the tray she used for breakfast. On days she has to leave early they would eat breakfast together, but on days like today when she had to leave later she ate alone. When Lightning got up Serah had already left. Even so, she had already prepared breakfast. Lightning’s work schedule was always changing, and she’d always had to leave quickly.
Their father died early, and when their mother was alive she had to work. So Lightning’s experience with housework was far longer than Serah’s. Serah, however, was a far better cook than Lightning.
“Serah’s just better at choosing delicious food.”
“Mm-hmm, and I’m a better cook too.” She remembered the conversations she would have with her mother and Serah. She was always happy and smiling. But then their mother fell ill.
It was just before she died. After school Lightning went with Serah to their mother’s hospital. Serah kept trying to run, but Lightning held onto her hand, saying “Don’t run, it’s dangerous.” over and over. If it was like always, she would have just been saying that, while trying to run herself. But today was different.
Yesterday, when she had arrived home from school, the doctor had contacted her, telling her that her mother had worsened. The next time she goes into a fit could be dangerous, he said.
There were no other family to tell. So the doctor had no choice but to tell the fifteen year old Lightning the details of her mother’s illness. If anything happens, he said, there is a social services person I can introduce you to. He told her many places she could go to get help. There are programs so that children without guardians can live freely. You don’t have to worry. You only have to think about yourself and your sister. That’s what the doctor said.
But, with his words Lightning realized that she’d have to take all responsibility now. Did it show in her face? she wondered. Looking back she felt her mother knew what she was thinking.
“I’m feeling good today. Yes, I think I want to eat some fruit. Serah, would you go and buy some for me?”
“I’ll go.” Lightning said, standing. But her mother smiled.
“Serah’s better at choosing delicious food.”
“Mm-hmm, and I’m a better cook too.” Serah said, proud of herself. She left the sick room.
“There will be a lot of things you’ll have to do now, not just cooking.” Her mother said. Serah’s footsteps faded into the distance. Lightning’s mother smiled at her. Yes, she understands, Lightning thought. That’s why she asked Serah for the fruit. Now she’ll talk more about what I’ll have to do. But, she didn’t.
“But you know, you don’t have to do it all by yourself. There are a lot of things Serah can help you with too.”
“But, mom...” She couldn’t say anything else. Her mother stretched out her hand, and held Lightning close. She stroked her hair like a small child. Lightning felt like she would cry.
“Cute little spoiled girl. We used to call you that, before Serah was born.”
“I don’t remember that...”
“Once Serah was born, you became an older sister. You were only three. Both me and your father no longer could call you our spoiled girl.” Her mother’s voice was laughing, but Lightning could hear the pain in it. The hand stroking her hair was so thin.
“After your father died, you always helped me, didn’t you. You always watched over Serah. You’re such a good big sister. That’s why I’m not worried about Serah. Because you’ll be there for her.” Her mother continued, “But Serah will be there for you too. She will help you when it hurts, she will give you strength. Don’t forget that.” And then her mother said, once more, in a small voice, “My little spoiled girl”.....
The condition of her illness changed quickly after that. She had already prepared herself for it, so she accepted it without a word. That day, the moment she was held by her mother like a small child, her childhood was over. She no longer had anyone she could call mother. So she was no longer a child. Could no longer be a child.
“You don’t have to do it all yourself.” Her mother had said that. But the only one who could protect Serah was her. Of course, she realized, I have to do it all myself.
I want to be an adult. She felt it keenly. To protect Serah, to make my only little sister happy, I have to become an adult as fast as I can. If I can’t be an adult by law, I will have to get rid of the name my parent’s gave me and make myself an adult. It’s okay right, if I’m no longer my mother’s daughter. In exchange I will be Serah’s guardian. I will protect her. She made a vow in front of her mother’s grave. She took herself a new name, Lightning.

At the sound of her holster failing she came back to herself. She hadn’t even realized, but she had already gotten dressed. She smiled humorlessly. It wasn’t even time to leave yet.
But she had woken up earlier than she’d planned. Probably because of what happened yesterday, she wasn’t able to sleep very well. Understandable, she said to herself for the millionth time, and sighed. It just had to be that guy. She wasn’t the type of over protective sister that would want to chase away all the guys who talked to her little sister. She wanted someone who would make Serah happy. She wanted someone who would protect her. She wouldn’t let anyone who couldn’t do that near her. He didn’t have to be a smooth talker or have anything good about him you could see. He just had treat her well, and be willing to protect her.
But that man could never protect her, Lightning thought. He’s just some guy playing king of the mountain. At the first sign of trouble he’d abandon Serah and run. If she let Serah cool her head a bit she’d come to understand. A straight A high school student and some worthless unemployed man could never work out.
If mother was alive, could we stop Serah together?
No, probably not. Lightning’s shoulders drooped. Father was sort of a dangerous type himself. He was easy-going and good-natured, but he wasn’t very reliable. Now that I’m an adult I understand that, Lightning thought. Of course, when I was a child I loved my father. In my memory he was always bright and laughing. But, if he had lived longer would I have been critical of his easy-going nature? I probably would have rebelled against him.
Mother chose father anyway. She probably would have been soft for someone like Snow. She probably would have said, “If it’s the person Serah loves...” and just accepted it.
So it’s up to me to protect Serah from him. I’m not mother, or father. They might have accepted it. But I won’t. Never.
She put on her leather gloves, and opened the door of her room. She decided to leave early today.

Chapter Four

According to old records, the Strange Ruins of Bowdam have been here for hundreds of years. The old buildings and residences of Cocoon are usually called “historic”, but things from Pulse are called “strange ruins”.
It was probably brought here during the War of Revelations, as materials to repair the places that had been destroyed. It is well know that the fal’Cie would bring in materials from Pulse to maintain the structures of Cocoon. But the strange thing is, in all those hundreds of years it was never used as materials to repair the buildings, it was never used for construction, it was never returned to Pulse. It had just remained in Bowdam, waiting.
Whether there are plans for it, or whether it is being saved for something, no one knows. For the immortal fal’Cie several hundred years mean nothing. No human could understand the thoughts of the fal’Cie.
In any case, it was all a mystery. Perhaps those close to the government knew something more, but a regular citizen like Serah knew nothing.
“No matter how many times I see it, I still think it’s strange....” Serah looked up at the towering ruins. Who could have built this?
Normal humans cannot live on Pulse. Frequent natural disasters and violent monsters running rampant make it impossible. She had heard that the only ones living there were practically barbarians. There is no way they could have built such a large complicated structure. She had heard, also, that on Pulse there is a fal’Cie just like there is on Cocoon. But unlike Cocoon’s fal’Cie, who only visits blessings on the people there, the fal’Cie of Pulse brings destruction.
If that that’s the case, then it couldn’t have been the fal’Cie of Pulse. If it had been built by something as terrible as that, then it would have been dangerous to Cocoon, and Cocoon’s fal’Cie would have destroyed it and used its materials.
But if it wasn’t the fal’Cie of Pulse, and it wasn’t the barbarians, then who had built it?
Many books and papers had been written on the subject. Everyone wanted to know. But no answers were found. It’s an old story, that no one would find the answer is understandable.
Serah became interested in history because of mysteries like these. And because of that her grades in history became much higher. She sometimes thought that if she hadn’t grown up around the Strange Ruins of Bowdam that she wouldn’t have become as interested in history, but she didn’t know for sure.
There was nothing like an unsolved mystery to exhilarate Serah. Even if there was no right answer, it was fun just imagining what it could be. Of course, if the mystery was solved that would make it even better.
“If only I could go inside.”
But there were no entrances to the ruins. There was no information reported about what was inside. Whether there was open space just like any building or not was unknown. Serah touched the outside. It wasn’t made of stone or metal. It was cool to the touch. No, it was probably some sort of metal, just not a kind that she saw everyday. Or at least not one used for buildings.
When it was made in Pulse, it probably felt very different. It has been worn down by the wind and rain of Cocoon for hundreds of years. Probably not only the texture had been changed, but the color and shape may have changed as well.
Serah looked up at the top of the ruins, and slowly walked around it, keeping her gaze at the top. When she did that, it looked as if the ruins were moving. When she was little this was something her sister had showed her. She heard that her father had shown her sister. Serah had been there when he had shown it to her, but she couldn’t remember.
It never changes here, Serah thought. Five years before, ten years before, now. So probably five and ten years from now it will be the same too. Even after I die, she thought, it probably still be here, unchanged...
Then, she felt something strange. On the outside wall of the ruins she felt a change under her fingertips. Surprised, Serah looked at the wall. The outside wall had shifted, and that shift opened up into the inside.
Serah gazed in wonderment at the inside.
“It’s open!?”
Since when? When she had been here a couple of days earlier there had been no change. She had looked at the ruins since she was little. She would never miss even the slightest change, especially not one as big as an entrance.
Perhaps a government research team had finally managed to open it. Serah walked a ways inside.
“Is anyone... here?”
There was no answer. There were no guards, so it probably wasn’t a research mission.
“It will be okay if I look around for a little bit ...right?”
If it were found out that she entered without permission, she would get in a lot of trouble, but in the end her curiosity won out.
She stepped softly inside the ruins. She hoped that she would at least be able to get to the very center. The center of the ruins from Pulse. This was something that came from outside of Cocoon. She was excited, thinking how close she was to finding out the secrets of the ruins. But the farther she went, the more she started to feel she was being disrespectful. The air inside the ruins was so cool and quiet.
The ruins seemed to be far bigger on the inside than the seemed on the outside. There were paths and stairs winding everywhere inside. It was obvious that there were no people here. Not only did she see no one, but heard no voices, not even any small sound. Despite that, the inside of the ruins was bright. There were lights along the pathways. As Serah went in deeper, she wondered what sort of device was used. The lights seemed to get brighter, as if they were showing her the way.
“Oh wow....!”
She had only meant it as a whisper, but it echoed loud in her ears. She put her hand to her mouth. She let out a small sigh, and looked again. The architecture was strange. The floor seemed to be made of stone, but it was completely different from any of the ancient buildings in Cocoon. The floor, and walls, and paths were all made perfectly straight. So it probably made by someone skilled. The lines met together elaborately, and created a beautiful harmony.
“I wonder what is in here?”
She looked upwards. The ceiling far above was bright enough that she could see it clearly even from below. There was a flight of stairs that went up. There must be something there.
In that moment the landing on the stairs brightened. It was like it was saying, “If you want to know more, come.” Serah didn’t hesitate for a moment, and put her foot on the stairs. Her footsteps echoed. The stair steps felt like they were a different height than the were in Cocoon, but not so much that it caused her trouble to walk up them.
She went up a bit more, and came upon another straight path, but that path became another stairway shortly after. The stairway was long, but she didn’t feel tired. Everything was so much more interesting than any museum that she had ever seen. The geometric walls, the square patterns of the floor. Serah was in a trance as she made her way upward.
The paths and stairs were fairly complex, but she never got lost. Like before, the way before her became brighter when she reached it. Showing her the way perhaps, but it helped her go higher.
What was this place made for, she wondered. Questions she had thought about many times over the years came to mind. It didn’t seem that this place was made for anything evil. She couldn’t feel anything malevolent in the air.
“But... I am a bit tired. I don’t think I’ll be able to make it to the top...”
She had already passed through many stairs, paths and small rooms. She rested herself against the stairs for a moment, and looked down. She wasn’t even half way up. Of course this was the same ruins that she always thought nearly touched the heavens. It wouldn’t be easy to get to the top of this place.
“Just a little bit more...”
She thought if she’s going to go back down anyway, she might as well go to the midway point. Her feet were tired, but she carried on. She was breathing heavily, going slowly up the stairs, when something caught her eye.
“How beautiful!”
On the edge of the next landing there was a pillar of light. Different from the lights on the pathway, it was a soft, green light.
“I’ll rest over there. That light probably means it’s a rest area.”
When she got closer, she saw that there were more pillars of light further up. The light washed down over her, erasing her weariness. Yes, this must be a rest area, she thought, as she leaned against the pedestal.
Suddenly there came a rumbling from inside the ruins. Surprised, Serah jumped up. The floor and walls in front of her began to move. She realized she must have been to optimistic about those pillars of light. They didn’t mark a rest area, but some kind of transporter.
Worried, Serah looked around. Stairways were made flat, pathways turned into walls, the whole inside of the ruins was changing. On the floor below, a huge cylinder fell down with a groan. I wonder if that’s a power source, she thought.
Suddenly, the stairway in front of her disappeared. She thought it would become a straight path like the others, but no. There was nothing there. It turned into a dead end.
“Now what’ll I do...”
The rumbling stopped, and everything became quiet again. She only had a brief moment of relief before a strange red pattern floated in the space before her. It was the same strange pattern that she had seen on the lower floors. Except, she thought she had seen it before, before she ever came here. Where have I seen it? she thought.
The red pattern suddenly let out a burst of bright light. Serah covered her face. A strange board appeared in the air. Not really a board, more like a floor that floats in the air.
“This is... like an elevator, right? An ancient one.”
She had seen ancient elevators, when she had visited one of the historical sites of Cocoon. But this “elevator” was far different from the ones she had seen before.
“I guess I’ll just have to ride it and see.”
Serah jumped on the platform. She didn’t even think that it might be dangerous. Like the lights on the pathways and stairs before, the elevator grew brighter too, leading her on. She was right, the elevator slowly started moving upward. Serah felt satisfied just that it would take her to the top.
The ceiling grew closer. The light became so bright it hurt. Finally the elevator stopped. Have I reached the top floor? Serah wondered. The air here felt cooler than it did on the bottom floor.
“Are these... crystal particles?”
Floating in the cool air were millions of tiny twinkling lights. Rather than think it beautiful, she felt, somewhere deep inside her, that it was holy. She straightened her back, and walked through the sparkling particles floating through the air. It’s times like this that make you want to pray, she thought.
The doors opened, like they were telling her that they will soon answer her every question. She went in. It was dark. She started to worry that this might not be a place she should be entering. But the path brightened. It wasn’t as bright as the path she was on before, but neither was it dark. This must be the right path, she thought.
Serah continued on, and the light grew slowly brighter. Yes this is right, she said to herself, I’m on the right path.
“Is something... there?”
She couldn’t quite see in the faint light. There was something ahead of her, something huge. Something alive. And it’s moving. Inside of it, a cold light gleamed.
“A crystal!? But, but why?”
In the next moment a bright burning light burst forth. It was a pure white light, so bright that she had to close her eyes. But a picture formed in her mind. It was big, and horrible.
What... What is it!?
She screamed but nothing escaped her throat. The large, horrible something raised itself up and writhed. There was a cry, but she couldn’t hear it. No, no I can hear it. It’s a song. Someone is singing. What song is this? What does it mean?
Then, she could no longer think. Everything grew dark.

Chapter Five

Lightning thought she would just walk around aimlessly for awhile before heading to work, but found herself at the shopping mall.
Every year tourists come from all around for the fireworks festival in Bowdam. The festival had been around since ancient times, and there were quite a few legends surrounding it. The most popular being, “If you pray to the fireworks, your wish will come true.” Just that. Nothing else required. All you have to do is pray. Probably because it was so simple it had been believed in for decades, possibly longer.
Everyone has wishes. No matter how happy you are, there will be something that could make you happier. That’s why on the night of the festival Bowdam’s gates swell with many times the usual number of people. With that many people gathering together all at once, accidents are bound to happen. So on festival night Bowdam’s security force are out on patrol. That night Lightning would be responsible for the area between the shopping mall and the beach.
It’s probably a good idea to check out my area beforehand, she thought. I can figure out where each store is, decide where I will assign my soldiers, and what I should move to prevent accidents. For example, I should put a lot of people around this accessory shop. Or at least tell them that they should be on guard. Any shop with jewels in it would be in danger of robbery.
She looked in one of the windows and something caught her eye. A large pendent hung from a delicate chain was on display. The pendent was of Cocoon and some sort of strange shaped object. Lightning didn’t know much about jewelry, but it looked like something Serah would like.
Walking around and looking at all the things in the mall made Lightning realize how long it’s been since she’d window shopped like this. Probably since the last time she went shopping with Serah. It’s been a long time since the last time we went shopping together, she thought. Ever since I joined the army.
She suddenly felt guilty. After joining, she thought that once she got used to her job she would make it up to Serah. But then a year passed, and she got more responsibility. She got even busier. Before she knew it, not only were they not going out together but they were hardly speaking with each other.
When she joined, Serah was still in middle school. She was probably worried about what she would do after school or her relationships with others. Everyone has problems when they are that age. She probably wanted to ask Lightning’s advice on a lot of things. But no, Lightning had been too busy at work to listen.
Serah had probably been lonely. She probably just wanted someone to talk to... that’s probably how she got drawn to a show-off like Snow. If that’s the case, she thought, then this is all my fault. If only I had been there for Serah. Even if I was busy, I could have made time for her. Why didn’t I? I swore before our mother’s grave that I would protect her, but I only made her feel lonely, so much so that she got in with that horrible man. And it’s all my fault....
“Oh, how cute!”
Lightning turned at the merry voice. A mother and son had stopped in front of a transportation container at the pet shop.
“You like this kind of thing mom?”
“What? But you used to like these too. You’d always stand in front of the store crying, saying ‘I want one, I want one!’”
“And how many years ago was that?”
“Not too long ago... only ten years.”
Mother and son were both looking into the container. Even from behind you could tell they got along well. The son’s hair was cool silver, while the color of the mother’s hair was much warmer. Even though their hair color was different, their faces looked alike. They say boys usually look like their mothers. His height made him look about fourteen or fifteen years old. The bright orange jacket he wore made him look even more that age. I was that age when my mother died, she thought a little sadly.
“These are really good with kids. They’re clever, and become easily attached to their owners.”
The pet shop owner told them as he took a small bird from the container and put it into a cage. It was a chocobo chick.
“These are sold out everywhere right now. Our shop in Ewleede just got some the day before yesterday and already they’re sold out. We’re going to have to send them replacements soon.”
When we were children they weren’t as popular as they are now, Lightning thought, but a few people in her class had baby chocobos. Serah had a friend that she would often play with that had one, and her eyes would always sparkle when she would talk about it.
“So would you like to buy one?”
“Oh no, unfortunately we’re on vacation. It would be too far to take it all the way to Palumpolum.”
When she heard the word “vacation”, that gave Lightning an idea. A vacation. That might be a good idea.
It would be a good way to make it up to Serah for making her so lonely. She could take Serah away somewhere. Though she wouldn’t be able to take a long vacation, if she put a bunch of her days off together, they could go on a short trip. Once the festival was over with their schedule would probably be more flexible and she could put in for some time off.
On my birthday, she thought, we could talk about it. On Lightning’s birthday they always spent it by making dinner together. Then Serah would give her a present that she had put a lot of thought into. This time she would be able to say thank you for the gift by telling her they would go on vacation. Just the two of them.
While they were on vacation she would listen to anything Serah wanted to talk about. To make up for all the time they hadn’t talked. They would have a fun time and eat delicious foods. Of course when they got back from vacation she would make enough time to talk with Serah. She wouldn’t let her be lonely anymore. If she wasn’t lonely anymore, surely she’d open her eyes and realize that she’d almost been duped by that horrible man. And then, she’d go to the university in Eden. If she made a lot of new friends, and saw new places, surely she’d completely forget about Snow.
Lightning decided it was an excellent idea. It was all thanks to that mother and son who gave her the idea. She turned around wanting to say thank you, but they were no longer in front of the pet shop. She saw them walking away together in the crowd. They had looked so happy, it made her feel warm inside thinking about them.
Thank you, Lightning thought, I hope you enjoy the rest of your vacation.

Chapter Six

In the darkness she heard a voice. It said “l’Cie”. It was a voice that sounded as if it would disappear in an instant.
“Why....”
This was a different voice, a clearer voice.
“Why did you choose someone from Cocoon?”
Who was talking? What were they talking about? She wanted to ask “Who are you?”, but she found she couldn’t speak. Nor could she open her eyes or move her fingertips. She couldn’t move at all. She felt like she was floating. What is happening? she wondered. Just as she thought that, the darkness became deeper. Without even thinking to fight it, she sank back down into unconsciousness.

She felt warmth on her eyelids. Opening her eyes, she saw blue sky above her. Not only the sky, but the outside of the ruins. How she came to be outside, laying on the ground, was a mystery. Timidly, she tried raising her right hand. She could move it. So she tried her left hand. Oh good, she thought, I can move both hands.
She slowly lifted herself up, but got a bit dizzy. With both hands against the ground propping herself up, she sat for a moment.
What just happened? she thought. I was walking around the ruins. And then? Then I saw that an entrance was open, so I went inside. And then? Then there were many stairs that I climbed, up and up, deep into the ruins.... I saw a large crystal. And then a pure white light. After that I can’t remember anything. As if that light burned it all away. What happened? What was that light?
“Why did you choose someone from Cocoon?”
She remembered that voice. Was that a dream? Probably. She had been flickering in and out of consciousness, and there hadn’t been any sign of humans in the ruins. But before she lost consciousness, that strange thing she saw. No, not strange. Horrible, repulsive. It’s name... no. No, it was a dream. It was a horrible nightmare.
But, Serah thought. If I am here, then that means that someone has to have been inside the ruins. I was unconscious, someone had to be there to carry me out. She searched her memory.
There was one other thing she had heard. Yes, “l’Cie”. L’Cie? That l’Cie? No, Serah shook her head. The l’Cies are nothing but an old story. More like a fairytale or a legend.
There was a dull throb from deep inside her head. When she fell she probably had hit something. She wondered whether she had gotten hurt anywhere else. She moved her legs, but they didn’t hurt. She raised her head, but did not get dizzy again. Holding on to the outside of the ruins she pulled herself up. Her legs shook a bit, but she could stand.
She wasn’t injured. She breathed a sigh of relief. Then her eyes fell on the black dirt covering her left arm.
Ugh, she thought, turning to look.
“What, what is this?”
She had a black pattern covering her upper arm. It was too elaborate to have been drawn on as a prank, but it was different from the tattoo that Lebreau had on her shoulder.
“I hope I’ll be able to wash it off. If I can’t... what’ll I do if I can’t?”
She touched it with her fingertips, and started. She had seen this pattern before. It was a complex pattern made up of many arrows. The pattern on her arm wasn’t exactly the same, but it was similar. Yes, yes she had seen it several times before in the ruins, the same one she had seen in that red light....
“Oh!”
Serah said softly. She had just remembered. When she had first seen the pattern in the ruins, she thought she had seen it somewhere before. Yes, she had definitely seen it before. A long time ago, from something she had borrowed from the library.
A long time ago, when enemies were sent from Pulse to attack Cocoon, the fal’Cie of Cocoon changed humans into l’Cie, making them it’s servants and giving them special powers. The l’Cie fought to protect Cocoon. It was written in the records of the War of Revelations.
The fal’Cie of Pulse also created l’Cie from the barbarians, and sent them to Cocoon. It was on that page she saw the pattern, the same pattern that was now on her arm. Below it, it had said “The Mark of l’Cie - Pulse - Reproduction”.
“I’m a l’Cie?”
A l’Cie of Pulse.
“No. No that can’t be.”
This was just some cruel joke. Some joke from that voice she had heard in the ruins.
“Why did you choose someone from Cocoon?”
Her heart skipped a beat. Those words. It was like they were saying, “You wouldn’t normally choose someone from Cocoon.” And that means, there must be people outside of Cocoon.
“In Pulse....?”
Of course. The ruins came from Pulse. That voice had been saying, “Why did you choose someone from Cocoon when you would normally choose someone from Pulse?” The voice saw nothing strange about the “choosing”. Which meant, they knew that place is where l’Cie are chosen. And the one who chooses the l’Cie is the fal’Cie.
Which means...
“Pulse’s fal’Cie is inside the ruins?”
Now everything make sense. The crystal particles in the air, the huge crystal she saw before losing consciousness... If the fal’Cie was there it all makes sense. Serah saw the fal’Cie, which made her into a l’Cie. From the fal’Cie of Pulse, the one who brings disaster on the people of Cocoon.
The l’Cie chosen by Cocoon’s fal’Cie were “Holy Servants”, but the ones from Pulse’s fal’Cie were “Pawns of the Devil”, and enemies of Cocoon.
“Am I? No. No it has to be a lie. It can’t be...”
Serah rubbed at the black mark on her arm til it hurt. It didn’t come off.
“This is just some horrible joke!”
She rubbed at her arm harder. She started. The black mark was changing. It wasn’t coming off, but the shape and color changed.
“No way...”
It wasn’t just something scribbled on her arm. It was engraved.
“No, no, no, I don’t want this.”
She held her knees up to her chin. No, this can’t be. It’s just some stupid mistake. She tried to convince herself, but every time she would see the mark on her arm she’d lose hope. She couldn’t deny what she knew. It would have been easier if she had known nothing.
“Snow... Lightning... I’m scared.”
It wasn’t cold, but her shoulders shook. The tears rolled down her face.
“Help me. Snow...”
She only cried for a moment. Snow will come back soon, she thought. I don’t want him to see me like this. This horrible mark. Now that I’m a danger to Cocoon.
She calmed her shaking legs, and stood. I have to leave here, she thought, now. Before Snow comes back. It was only that thought that kept her moving.

Chapter Seven

Where would Serah like to go? Lightning wondered.
Just thinking about it made her smile. Walking around the shopping mall Lightning’s footsteps felt lighter than usual. It had been her first time in a travel agency, but the staff there were kind to her. There were plenty of places they could go even on a short vacation, they had told her. They even had sent the information data to her home address. Now on her birthday they could look through them, and make plans. It would be their first vacation together. She was sure it would make Serah happy.
Thinking about Serah’s smile made her heart feel bright and warm. My treasure, Lightning thought. For that I would do anything, Lighting vowed deep in her heart. I’m sorry Serah, she thought, for not having been there for you. But I won’t make you feel lonely anymore. I won’t use my job as an excuse. I promise.
She felt like she had been running forward ever since their mother’s death. I shouldn’t have to hurry anymore, I should take time to stop and relax. For Serah, and for myself.
In the crowd she saw two oddly dressed people. One was a black haired woman whose clothes combined the flamboyant man and the bare-skinned woman that she had seen yesterday. I seem to be fated to meet black haired women lately, Lightning said to herself. But unlike the woman yesterday, this woman seemed to have a wild fearlessness about her. Maybe it was just the design of her blue clothes that made it seem that way. It was probably “the cutting edge of fashion” or something like that. The woman with her was wearing the same kind of clothing. They were probably wearing the same clothing brand. Perhaps they were visiting from Eden.
“I don’t understand anything about fashion.”
She said, sighing.
“You don’t understand what?”
A familiar voice said behind her. It was Sergeant Major Amoda. Lightning made a slight bow, and pointed to the two women she was watching earlier.
“The clothes those two are wearing...”
They weren’t there anymore. Perhaps they went into some store.
“Two women?”
“No, nevermind. I was just saying how I don’t know much about the latest fashion.”
Included those two I saw yesterday, she added silently. I don’t get it at all.
“Well maybe not you. But what about your little sister? Isn’t she interested in the... ah, latest fashion?”
“If she said that she wanted to wear those kinds of clothes...”
I wouldn’t allow it, she was about to say. But stopped. Amoda was just leading her on again. Lightning laughed humorlessly, that’s the Sergeant Major for you.
“It’s unusual to find you at the shopping mall before work, Sergeant, doing some shopping perhaps? For the latest thing?”
“Let’s stop talking about that, please.”
She said it so curtly, that Amoda gestured with his hands that he was giving in.
“I’m looking the area over, since this will be my patrol area during the festival. There will be quite a lot of changes to make around the shopping mall.”
“I’m happy that you work so hard, but don’t you think you should wait until the day of the festival to do that?”
“Well why are you here, Sergeant Major?”
She decided to tease him right back. She already knew the reason. They had known each other for a long time.
“Well, the same as you.”
“There will be nothing for you to do then, will there.”
“An old guy like me can get pretty forgetful. I’ll forget by the day of the festival.”
They looked at each other and laughed.
“I hope everything goes smoothly at the festival this year.”
In eight days the sky above Bowdam will burst with fireworks. It will be the night people who want their dreams to come true will gather. The next day would be Lightning’s twenty-first birthday. It would be the first time in a long while she would really be able to talk with Serah. Thinking about it made her heart thrum with excitement.
“Uh-oh, we can’t just stand around here all day. It’s time. Let’s go.”
Lightning straightened her clothes and looked ahead. It’s time for work. It was time for her to become a soldier.
“Understood, Sergeant Major.”
The afternoon sunlight was bright. Weaving between the happy shoppers, the two of them walked quickly. She heard people talking of silly things, and laughing brightly. The Coastal City of Bowdam was full of sights like these. Lightning watched them, still believing that Serah was watching them too.

Part II: Stranger

Chapter One

Vanille had slept lightly. She had dreamt many dreams, and cried many times. But her memory of them was hazy, and she couldn’t remember a single one. It was that sort of sleep. “Vanille”, she heard, or thought she heard, and opened her eyes.
“Fang?”
Did she just imagine she heard her name? Or had that just been a dream too? Fang, who had been sleeping beside her, was no where to be found.
“Fang... where are you?” Vanille stood up and looked around. She felt a crushing helplessness. Everyday it grew worse.
Vanille went out into the passageway and called Fang’s name. There was no need to raise her voice, the hall was wide and even the smallest sound echoed loudly. Sure enough, this time, she heard Fang’s voice coming from below. Vanille ran down the stairs and hopped onto the elevator. She knew where Fang was, now, and could go straight to her.
She felt wind on her cheek. Cool dawn air blew from the entrance, and she could see that outside it was still dark.
“What’s up?” Fang spoke before she could say a word.
“Nothing.” Vanille said. She wished she could ask Fang the same, ask her what she was doing. But she didn’t. Instead Vanille just stood quietly beside her. From here you could see the ocean, and the sky. But no horizon.
“What a strange sky.” Fang said, looking up. It was still dark. She had done the same on the day they had woken up. They had gone outside, and Fang had looked up at the sky.
“When I look at it I can’t breathe. I mean what is that? Why can I see a city above my head?”
Cocoon was a world in the shape of a ball. Inside the ball there were cities, there were oceans, there were forests... and the space trapped between them was the “sky”. It was very different sky from the one they had known.
“It’s not just the sky, even the ocean is weird. It didn’t smell of salt at all.”
“It did, when you got close enough.”
“Even that’s weird. Here I thought I could drink it, but then... salt water. It tricked me.”
“We did think it was a lake, at first.”
“Every little thing is weird here. I don’t get any of it.” Fang sighed.
“It’s like a dream. One that you can’t understand.”
“Yeah... I’m amazed these guys can live in a place like this.”
“I wish it was a dream...” Yes, if only it had been a dream. Yesterday, and the day before that, and the first day they had woken up. If it had only been a dream, Vanille thought. “I wish we had woken up just today...” If only reality had only started from this moment. It was probably stupid to think that, it was probably just her being naive. But maybe, just maybe if that had happened, things might have turned out differently.
“It would be the same either way. We’d complete our Focus and return to Gran Pulse. What else is there for us?”
“Yes... you’re right.” Vanille smiled and nodded. But she couldn’t help but think that, maybe, just maybe if they hadn’t woken up that things might have been different. That if things had changed even a little bit, there might not have been so much pain.
“Hey, don’t worry. No Focus could ever be completed in only three days.”
Fang must have thought she looked sad because it was the fourth day since they had woken up, and they hadn’t gotten any closer to completing their Focus. When Vanille thought back on the three days since they had awoken, it made her grow dizzy and ill. It was then that she’d really feel that they should have never woken up. If they had kept on sleeping, then nothing would have happened, no one else would have gotten involved.
Vanille raised her hand towards the brightening sky. On the day they had awoken, she had stood beside Fang, looking up at the sky. Beyond her raised hands she could see a city. Such a strange colored sky. It was the color of beginnings.

Chapter Two

They needed time. Time to understand where they where were, and what sort of situation that had been thrust into. Just after she awoke, Fang was somewhere between dreams and reality. Vanille herself could felt a little hazy, and wasn’t good for much of anything. But eventually they managed to shake off the fog that clung to them.
Looking around them, they saw they were in the temple. It was the Chamber of the l’Cie, where crystalized l’Cie are enshrined. It was then they realized what had happened. They had completed their Focus, and gone to their final rest. But now a new Focus had come down to them, and they had been woken up once more. It was easy to figure out that much. But...
“Hey, just what happened before we turned into crystal?” Fang said.
“You don’t remember!?”
“Yeah... my head’s all messed up. I feel like I’m forgetting something important.” Fang’s voice was shaking. She was looking at the l’Cie mark on her arm, it was scorched a livid white. It was only later that Vanille realized Fang had been trying to smile.
“I’m... broken.” Fang was nearly in tears. This was a Fang that Vanille had never seen before. Vanille reached out her arms, enfolding her into them. “Me too.” she whispered, but her voice was like a stranger’s. When her shaking finally subsided, they stood, and Vanille smiled.
“Why don’t we go home?”
One Focus had already been completed, surely they would be welcomed back with open arms? Their new Focus could be completed later... even if they didn’t know what that Focus was.
“And if everyone we knew back home are already old fogeys?” Fang said, and smiled. It was a true smile, this time.
“Do you think so? But maybe not that much time has passed, and they’ll all say ‘Oh, are you two back already?’”
“I wonder how many years have passed.”
“It could only be days you know.”
“Then they’d be working us too hard. I mean, at least give us a half a years rest.” Joking together, they made their way outside, expecting to see their home once more.
“This can’t be!”
It was night. But it was so bright they could see the buildings that made up the city surrounding them. There were lights in every nook and cranny, and an ocean reflecting it all back to them. It was a strange ocean, with no horizon. Looking up, they saw an even stranger sky. At first they thought it was a sky with many stars, but then they realized it was not stars at all, but the lights of a far away city. Could something like this truly be called a sky?
“Where...”
“We’re not in Gran Pulse.” Fang said.
Vanille closed her eyes for a moment. I’ll just look, one more time, she thought. Maybe it will be different. When she opened them again, nothing had changed.
They looked at the ocean and sky, but didn’t speak. There was nothing to say. In silence they returned to the temple. They were hungry. Cocoon--and they knew it was Cocoon--was no place for them to be wandering around, hungry and unarmed. In the place where the l’Cie were enshrined offerings were always brought. There was food that would not rot no matter how long it was left unattended, as well as weapons and accouterments that the l’Cie left here had used. Vanille had heard that offerings were made daily so that the crystalized l’Cie could sleep soundly, but it was probably done in case they awoke once more.
“What the hell is this?”
The food that had been left in offering had deteriorated so badly that it was nothing anyone would be able to eat. They searched the rest of the temple for signs of anything edible, but it was a wasted effort. Food offerings had only been left in the Chamber of the l’Cie.
“Is someone playing tricks on us?”
“Surely not... but it is strange.”
The offerings should have lasted at least ten years. Both Fang and Vanille knew that quite well. It was tradition to bring new food stuffs to the temple every ten years. There would be a festival, and everyone would partake of the food. It was so they could share their joy of the festival with the sleeping l’Cie.
The food wasn’t something a child would find delicious, but it wasn’t inedible. The food they had before them both looked and smelled terrible, never mind the taste. It looked dangerous to eat.
“It’s not just the food, look at that.” Vanille said. There were festival garments, and a box to hold them in. Both had a faded, worn look about them.
“This too...” Fang held up her favorite spear and twisted it’s head. Vanille didn’t know what was wrong with it, but perhaps some part of it had decayed.
“It looks as thought everything had been exposed to the wind outside.”
The air inside the temple was still. This shouldn’t have happened. Not just to the food, but the metal and cloth shouldn’t have decayed so easily.
“So the only things in this room that didn’t change were us, as crystals.” Fang said. Just how many years had they slept. From the looks of things, it wasn’t only in tens of years, but perhaps hundreds of years.
“Forget everyone being old. By now everyone will be dead.”
“No...” Vanille looked down, biting her lip, trying to get herself under control.
“Don’t make that face.” Fang said, slapping her on the back, and stood up. “First, we’ve got to eat.”
“But we can’t eat this...” Vanille looked down at the offerings. The rotten food, the faded festival garments. She had loved wearing these for the festival...
“There was an ocean, right? There was even a forest. It was a little far, but... We’ll find food. It’ll work out.” Fang grabbed her spear and smiled. How strange, Vanille thought. When Fang says “It’ll work out.” I really think it will.
“You’re right.” Vanille took her own weapon, and stood up.

It was already dawn, the perfect time for hunting in enemy territory. Unlike midday, there wouldn’t be many people about, but it was still light enough to see. First they tried the ocean. In the forest they ran the chance of getting lost, and in any case, it was closer to the temple. They might not find anything in time for breakfast, but they would be able to have lunch at least, or so they thought...
“Looks like we’ll be having breakfast after all!” Vanille looked down in amazement at the fish wriggling in her arms. It wasn’t unusual that Fang would be able to catch fish with a flash of her spear, but it was very strange that Vanille would have no trouble.
“Are these fish wrong in the head?”
It didn’t seem as though these fish had no predators, so didn’t realize there was any danger. When Fang or Vanille would move towards them, they would try to escape. But they moved far too slowly.
“Are these even okay to eat?”
Game that is too easily caught could be poisonous, or have a bad taste, and be unfit to eat. They both started thinking that perhaps these fish wouldn’t be any use to them at all.
“My, you young ladies are quite good at that aren’t you?” A voice called them from the beach. They stiffened, instantly regretting their lack of vigilance, and turned around. But what they found was an elderly couple, smiling and clapping.
“How funny, to see people catching fish in Bodhum this way.”
“.... never take the bait. But I see now, it’s better to use a harpoon rather than a fishing pole.”
Vanille didn’t catch what the name of the fish was, but it seemed it was a common one in Cocoon.
“Oh sorry, we’re probably bothering you.”
“Didn’t mean to be rude and all.” They looked sad for a moment, but their smile returned quickly and the took each others hand, moving off down the beach.
“What... was that.” Fang had waited until the couple had moved out of sight before speaking.
“They were from Cocoon... right?” They had thought if they were found they would be attacked immediately, no questions asked. This was, after all, “The Devil’s Nest in the Sky”. The clothing they wore was much different from anything seen on Gran Pulse. If that was the dress of Cocoon, then they should have been spotted as enemies in an instant.
“But they didn’t seem to be on guard.”
“So you think maybe they’re as stupid as the fish? Well, they were old you know. They get that way.”
“You’re probably right...” Vanille said. But she thought of another possibility.
“Maybe they’re trying to catch us off guard.”
“You mean they were just buying time until they could bring their friends? Oh yeah, I can see that happening.”
“Then it might be dangerous to go back right away.”
“Yeah, we should look around first.”
They got out of the ocean and walked back in the direction of the temple. It was better to gather information rather than try to conceal themselves. If they met face to face with the enemy a second time, they would just have to figure out what to do then. It wasn’t as though they were unarmed. They had enough training that they would be able to put up a fight even if they were attacked from behind.
In the end all their training was useless. It wasn’t that they weren’t able to fight back, but the enemy never attacked. They had seen them, had watched them from far away. But they were unarmed, and stood unguarded, so there was no reason to attack from their end. They didn’t want to give the enemy any incentive to attack, so they only kept watch. They had expected to be attacked at any moment, and kept their guard up. They were prepared.
“What the hell is wrong with these guys?” Fang whispered, watching the people who had their unguarded backs facing them. Vanille was in agreement. These people were strangely unwary.
“Maybe they don’t know that we’re the enemy?”
“Even though we’re armed? You must be joking.”
But maybe that’s why they haven’t realized we’re the enemy, Vanille thought. If not, that first elderly couple we met, and that group of boys who just passed by us, would have never ignored us like this.
A sudden flapping of bird’s wings interrupted her thoughts. Fang drew her spear from her back and held it at the ready. Winged creatures gave you no chances, your only options are fight or flight. The sound it made was not that of a large creature, so fighting was the best course of action. Vanille readied her weapon and jumped in beside her.
“Huh?”
They both froze in mid-swing.
“How...?”
The white bird had been taken out with a single stroke. The bird was far larger than any of the fish they had caught.
“How could a monster bird be this weak?”
A bird this size should be a meat eater, and strong. It wasn’t the kind of creature that should have been brought down so easily.
“Do you think maybe it eats nuts and fruits? I mean, it’s beak and claws aren’t even sharp.” After checking it over to make sure it was dead, Vanille grabbed it by the legs.
“But how could it have been this stupid? If this was Gran Pulse it would have been dead in an instant.”
“Yeah, if something like this was down there, it would have been on the dinner table within a day.”
“As much fish and meat as you can eat? Nice place.”
The vegetables were in abundance as well. Further along the path there was a field, but no fences or wires were set up to keep out the birds and beasts. It was if they were telling them they could take as much as they liked.
And so their first meal on enemy territory was more luxurious than they would have ever dreamed. While it was unfortunately they were unable to find any cookware or spices, that was just asking for too much.
Since they couldn’t start a fire in the temple, they cooked their fish and meat outside. For kindling they used a priest’s ceremonial garb and staff.
“The priests would die if they could see this.”
“Do you think we might get in trouble?”
“This is an emergency, it’s alright.”
“Yeah I suppose. Right now our survival is more important. Mmm, this looks good.” They both bite into the freshly cooked meat.
“Ugh!”
“What the hell is this?”
They stared at the meat they had just bit into. It wasn’t inedible, it didn’t even really taste bad. In fact, it hardly had any taste at all. The meat was watery, and stringy. They could hardly believe it, so just to make sure they tried the fish and vegetables. But the taste was the same.
“This taste bad even for wild creatures...”
Different fish taste differently, so it was possible they had just chosen a bad kind. And wild game usually doesn’t taste nearly as good as domestically bred animals. And yet...
“But we found the vegetables in a field, right?”
Vanille nodded. She had thought the soil looked bad, what with it being unguarded and all. But it had been well watered and weeded. There was no question about it being a tended field.
“How could these Cocoon guys eat this crap?” Fang grumbled, but continued to eat the meat anyway. Vanille followed her example, and bit into a vegetable. At least it seemed it was okay to eat.
When they were finished eating they buried the remains of their fire, and returned inside the temple. This place just grew stranger and stranger. Slow moving fish, idiot birds, and people who could clearly see they are different but are not suspicious of them. Somehow it was hard to accept, even given the excuse that this was a different world.
“Hey, want to go see the city tomorrow?”
“Already?”
“We won’t get anything done by just sitting here.”
It was true, they needed to find out more information. How long they had been in Cocoon, why the temple had been brought here... there were so many questions.
“We’ll have to cross that bridge eventually anyway.”
“Why!?”
“Our Focus...” Fang said, holding onto the arm with her scorched white mark. “I might be able to remember something if we go straight into enemy territory.”
What would Fang do once she remembered? No, there was only one thing she would do. Fight.
“We don’t have to hurry. I mean we only just woke up, right?”
“It’s already the second day. Tomorrow will be the third.”
“Well, yeah...”
“Are you scared?” Fang’s eyes grew soft, and she patted Vanille on the back to soothe her. “Come on, you saw those guys today. The two of us are stronger than all of them together.”
No, I can’t tell Fang yet, Vanille thought. Not yet.
“I’m not worried. I have you with me.” The things I want to drive from my thoughts, can I make them no longer be real? Can I make them have never happened? Vanille was suddenly struck with an idea. It grew brighter in her mind, and her heart felt light as air.
“Okay, let’s go. It’ll be alright, I’m sure of it.” Vanille smiled brightly. All she had to think about was tomorrow. It had to go well tomorrow, nothing else matter.

Chapter Three

“What... is all this?”
“Do you think... it might be a festival?”
Being surrounded by the people of Cocoon was no longer as surprising as it first was. When groups of people passed by, they didn’t tense up as they first had. Many people had walked passed them on their way from the temple to where they were now, but none of them had tried to attack, and none of them had looked at Fang or Vanille oddly.
Walking along the beach, they had seen girls in similar clothing to their own swimming in the water. It was a relief to see them. Apparently the people around here had mistaken them for one of their own. It was easy then, to slip by them unnoticed.
There were so many people. Many more than they ever would have thought to see in one place. Especially in such a narrow, cramped space between buildings. Both Vanille and Fang stood in the crowd, their jaws hanging open as they stared at the sight.
“Let’s go already.” Fang said, shaking her head, and setting off. Vanille followed. It had been only the two of them standing in the middle of the path, while people rushed passed them on all sides.
Walking along the road, they came to the realization that all of these people were shopping. Upon closer inspection, they found that all the buildings set up on either side of the street were stores.
“Are all of these buildings shops?”
Just how many were there? More than Vanille had ever seen before. There were even several shops that specialized in clothing, each bursting with a variety of color and design. No wonder their clothing was not thought odd, with such an abundance of different styles.
There were many different shops. Vanille saw a shop that had accessories, another that had what looked like paper and pens, there was a furniture shop on that side of the street, and on the other there was even one that had what she thought were some sort of vehicles lined up outside.
Looking at the people, she saw a girl happily picking through racks of clothing. Over there, a small child who was pouting, maybe trying to get his parents to buy him something. A happy couple was leaving a jewelry shop. Every single one of them had a joyful look on their face.
“I feel a little dizzy...” Vanille was tired, even though she hadn’t even walked very far. Trying to take everything in on both sides of the street had done her in.
“Hey, Fang...” she almost said, but stopped herself just in time. Fang looked grim.  “Thieves...” she whispered.
Vanille grabbed onto Fang’s hand before she could act. She understood what Fang was feeling, understood it better than anyone. Vanille felt the same way. But right now they were right in the middle of enemy territory, and they only carried small, concealed weapons with them.
“Fang, you can’t...”
“I know. I know, but...” Her fists clenched as she tried to suppress her anger. “All of this was stolen from us. But still they...”
It was well known that Cocoon was a den of demons. The fal’Cie of Cocoon would come to Gran Pulse, to take as much material as they wanted. Once they even took a whole town. They would steal farmland just before harvest, and tear rare metals straight from the earth. That’s why they had thought the people from Cocoon were their enemies.
But, after seeing that elderly couple yesterday, and all the people who passed by them, she had started to think it was odd. And today, seeing people shopping, doubts started to grow in her mind. Did these people truly wish to destroy Gran Pulse, and take everything from it?
Vanille had started to think, from what she had seen, they weren’t so different from her own people. Their clothes were different, their houses were different, the taste of their vegetables and meat were different, but perhaps on the inside they were the same.
“Today we’re gathering information. Right?” She whispered in her ear. Vanille didn’t want her to do anything rash.
“... right.” Fan said in a clipped tone. Vanille opened her mouth to say something, but she heard a voice behind her calling to them.
“Hey there ladies, you all alone? Going shopping? You don’t look like you’re from around here.”
At the sound of their voices Fang stiffened. Turning around, they found two young men, smiling. Vanille looked at them cautiously. Their faces were open and friendly, but these men were far different from the elderly couple they had met the day before. Surely this time they were just trying to catch them off guard so they could capture them.
“You aren’t scared of us are you?”
“Don’t worry, we aren’t some weirdoes.”
The look on their face and their body language gave lie to the truth behind their words. They must be planning something. Vanille stepped back, and Fang took her concealed weapon in hand.
“Hey, want to go have something drink? Or maybe we could go out for lunch?”
At the word “lunch” Fang and Vanille turned to look at each other. They could not be enemies if they offered to sit across from each other at the table, and partake in food and drink.
“Really? You’d eat with us?” Vanille never thought that an enemy would say such a thing.
“There’s a really good restaurant nearby. Come on, we’ll show you.”
“Yeah, it’s a little early, but it can get pretty crowded when lunch time hits.”
Vanille glanced at Fang. She looked a bit at a loss, and was still on guard, ready to pull out her weapon at any moment. Vanille shook her head slightly, to tell Fang to let it go for now.
“Alright fine. Let’s eat.” Fang turned back around and nodded to the two men. Both of them smiled. They were real smiles this time, not fake like before. Vanille thought that maybe she had only been imagining that they had been hiding something.
Fang grimaced, as usual, but she couldn’t refuse them. Refusing to sit at the table with another was the same as declaring war. It was too dangerous to start a war against this many people, and if she did then she might never find a way to get her memory back.
So they followed the two men, not speaking to them or to each other, as they showed them to a bustling restaurant filled with people.
“So what do you want to eat?” One of the men asked once they reached the table. How odd, Vanille thought. If they’re the ones who are making the offering, why must we choose what to eat? We are supposed to eat what they give us. That’s how it always is.
“The menu is over there.” The other one smiled, and pointed to the wall. Vanille grew even more confused. Just what do they want us to do?
“Uhmm...”
What was written there, that is to say, the markings on the wall were in the writing of Cocoon. It probably explained everything that they had to do. But unfortunately, neither Vanille nor Fang could read any of it.
Vanille motioned with her eyes, trying to ask Fang what they should do. Fang nodded, and went for her weapon.
“Not that!” Vanille yelled, and rushed to stop her before it was too late. The two men looked at her questioningly.
“Er... it’s nothing. I mean really, it’s nothing. Don’t worry, it’s....” She forced the muscles of her mouth into a smile. Fortunately, it seemed to fool them.
“If you can’t decide, what about the special?”
“Okay! We’ll take that.” Vanille nodded. Whatever they had to do to get out of this without looking too odd. One of them ordered, and Vanille breathed a sigh of relief.
“So, where are you girls from?”
From one problem to another. This wasn’t a question so easily answered. She’d just have to try to smile and fool them once more.
“Well... far.”
“Far?”
“Yeah, really far.” Just in case they decided to ask for the city name, Vanille quickly asked them a question instead.
“So where are you from?”
“We’re from Eden. That’s where our University is.”
“Eh-din.... You-knee-verse City?”
“Yeah... Eden University.”
It look like repeating the question was the wrong thing to do. Vanille whispered in Fang’s ear.
“Have you ever heard of Eh-din? Or You-knee-verse City?”
“Don’t ask me.”
“Yeah...”
Fang put a finger to her forehead as though she were thinking. Then her face cleared.
“If You-knee-verse is the name of their city... then maybe Eh-din is the name of the mountain or valley it’s in?”
Vanille slapped her knee, of course. That must be it.
“Excuse me? Is... something wrong?”
Whispering among themselves, they had completely forgotten about the two men. Fortunately it didn’t seem they could hear what they were talking about, but it had been very rude of them.
“Sorry, it’s nothing. So what is this.... You-knee-verse City place like?”
“University?”
Vanille didn’t know why he had repeated it back to her, but she nodded. The two men started talking excitedly about “You-knee-verse City”. It was obvious they were proud of their city, and loved it very much. Vanille wondered if it was an easy place to live, or if just these two in particular had a lot of hometown pride. Perhaps it was both. In any case, it meant they wouldn’t have to talk anymore about themselves. Even though she could barely understand any of what they were saying, she listened and nodded along, smiling.
“Sorry to keep you waiting.” The waitress said, interrupting them in the middle of their story. She laid out their dishes along the table.
“What? Why is the food already here?” Vanille said, surprised. She had thought it would take much longer for the food to arrive. That’s why she had tried so hard to get them to talk about themselves.
“What do you mean ‘why’?” He looked at her strangely. Apparently she shouldn’t have been so surprised.
“It’s... it’s nothing. Oh look at this! Everything looks so delicious, and I’m so hungry right now.” Then they made another mistake. Joining their fingers together to say grace was a normal thing for her and Fang, but the two sitting across from them did nothing but stare.
“What’s that? Some sort of spell?”
“Huh? Ah, y-yes of course!”
“You girls are so funny.”
“D-do you think so?”
Well, so long as the only thought of them as funny they would be safe. As long as they don’t start to think we’re odd, Vanille told herself. She took a bite of the food.
It didn’t have a very strong flavor, but it wasn’t bad. It was a proper meal this time, not like what they had eaten on the previous day. It was food that someone had made them, and for that they would be thankful. Even if it wasn’t to their own taste.
“Is this the salt? It better not be sugar.” Fang said.
“Oh! Good thinking, we can just put salt on it. Pass me...”
"What are you doing? You can't put that much on!"
Another mistake. How many times has it been? She felt like crying. Fang, being Fang, didn’t seem to care much.
“Really? I always eat it like this.” Fang dumped salt onto her meal, and popped it into her mouth. The other two stared in shocked silence.
“Um, well... she just... really likes salty things!”
It was completely true. Fang did love salty food. But apparently “salty food” in Cocoon didn’t go to quite this extent.
“Oh yeah. So what’s that?” Ignoring their reactions to her food preference, Fang pointed out the window. You could see the top of the temple from here.
“Huh? Oh, you mean the Pulse Vestige?”
He seemed relieved to have found a change of subject. Neither of them looked at Fang’s plate again. They probably were trying not to think about the salt.
“Yeah, how long as this... 'vestige', been there?”
They gave her an odd look. Maybe this was something that even children on Cocoon knew about. The hole they were digging for themselves kept growing deeper. Vanille tried to make excuses for their obvious lack of knowledge.
“Well... you guys just look so smart. Yeah, I bet you’re really really smart.” While that compliment was as see-through as a summer’s day, it was worth a shot. Even if it didn’t make them happy, no one got mad about compliments. “I just thought, you know, you guys might know more about things then we do. Like... in more detail?”
The suspicious look fell from their faces, and they grew more cheerful.
“Well, according to one theory it has been there since six hundred and sixty-six years ago. Though some sources say since six hundred, and others six hundred and fifty years ago.”
Vanille’s eyes opened wide. They had thought that perhaps it had been a couple hundred years, but to hear the actual date was shocking.
“But the textbooks have it written as, ‘Several hundred years ago, after the War of Revelations, the fal’Cie brought it up from Pulse.’ Of course, the theory that it was six hundred and sixty-six years ago is quite popular, but there is no actual proof. There will always be different opinions.”
Several hundred years ago, six hundred and sixty six years ago... those words kept echoing in her mind. None of the rest of what they said registered.
“So that... vestige or whatever. What about now? Did it cause problems for the guys on Pulse when it was taken?”
The two men glanced at each other. Vanille worried that they had said something wrong again. But no, this time they laughed.
“Cause problems for them? Are you joking? It’s not like there are any people on Pulse.”
“There... aren’t?” Even Fang was struck dumb.
“Pulse is hell, no one can live there. Everyone knows that. Did you girls not pay attention in history class?” He was just making fun of them, but words were caught in her throat. She knew she had to say something so they wouldn’t become suspicious of them again, but she only managed a weak laugh.
“Well, they say that there are barbarians down there that are no better than animals, but...”
“Barbarians...”
“Yeah. They can hardly speak, and wear animal skins. During the War of Revelations the fal’Cie tried to put them to work, but they say that they weren’t much good for anything.”
A bloody red haze clouded Vanille’s vision. Those “useless barbarians” were her people.
“Since those are the only things living down there, it hardly matters what we take does it? Since we’re putting it to good use up here, they should be thanking us.”
She had heard of a town that lived in poverty after their farmland had been ripped from the ground before it could be harvested. They railroad was stopped, they couldn’t get any fuel or food, and they all froze to death. Thankful? He says they should be thankful?
They know nothing, Vanille thought. They don’t have to get their own hands dirty, they don’t even realize what horrible things they’re doing, they just live off what their fal’Cie took from us.
Beneath the table her fists shook. She could only think of breaking the plate that sat in front of her. It wasn’t self-control that was on her mind. But waiting. Fang would take the lead, she would know what to do.
“I need to see you outside for a minute.” Fang stopped eating and stood up.
“What? But we’re in the middle of eating...”
“It doesn’t matter. Come with me. Now.” Fang’s voice was quiet. A small smile hung about her lips. It wasn’t a real smile, but they were easily fooled. Vanille saw beneath that smile, but said nothing.
Intelligence must not have been one of their better qualities. When Fang called them out in the middle of a meal, they should have know what was coming. They should have known that there was to be a fight. It was a breaking of truce, a declaration of war. Or maybe this was something that the people of Cocoon just did not understand.
Even so, they came along quietly, so they couldn’t have been very bright. Even when it became obvious they were being taken to a place that was away from prying eyes, they didn’t seem wary or even question it.
It only took two or three of Fang’s punches to knock them out. Pathetic, just as weak as the bird and the fish from yesterday.
“So sorry for being a Barbarian. That’s the last thing I need bastards like you to tell me. You’re even worse than the worms crawling through the dirt.”
Of course, they couldn’t hear a word she was saying. They were probably happier not knowing. Fang kicked them for awhile, but then seemed to think of something and knelt down.
“What’s wrong?”
“Their stuff...” Fang muttered, and began rifling through their clothing.
“Oh!”
They might be able to find out something. Weapons could be taken, and used for their benefit. Vanille decided to help, and leaned over the second man.
“It’s strange...”
“What is?”
“He doesn’t have any money on him. What about that one?”
“Let’s see... no, nothing.” In fact, he didn’t have much of anything. They hadn’t been carrying any bags with them either.
“Then how did they pay at the restaurant?”
When they had left the restaurant, one of them had gone over to the cashier to pay. If he wasn’t carrying any money, how could he have paid? Vanille turned him over and searched his pants pocket.
“What’s this?” Vanille said, pulling out a thin board about the size of her hand. It looked like it was made of metal. It was colored light grey, but had a black circle near the center.
“Fang, look at this. Is it a... card of some kind?”
“This guy has one too.”
I wonder what they use it for? Vanille thought, and pressed the black circle. The grey part lit up.
“Ahhhhhh, no! What’s it doing?” Surprised, Vanille threw the card away from her. She knelt on the ground, watching it, and saw the color leech away until the card became clear enough to see through. She wondered what sort of device it could be. How could such a thin device pull off such a trick? There was no where to hide the wires or innards.
Vanille continued staring as a three-dimensional image began to form above the card. It was a person’s face.
“This is...”
“To identify the owner of the card.”
Vanille picked it up, and tried pressing the black circle again. But there was no change in the image. She pressed it in various other places, but nothing happened.
“I think only the owner can use it. It probably won’t do anything else.”
Fang nodded, and looked over the other card, checking to see if there was anything else they could do with the card. Suddenly she looked up, surprised.
The sound of flapping could be heard close-by. Jumping up, they hid in the shadows of the wall. A white bird, much bigger and dangerous looking than the water bird they had seen yesterday, swooped down. Though it was a bird, it’s eyes were positioned on the front of it’s face, rather than on the side. It almost looked human.
As suddenly as it arrived, it flew off. In the shadow of it’s wings they could see the sharp claws of a bird of prey. It didn’t seem inclined to attack, circling once above their heads before vanishing into the sky.
“Did that bird see what we were doing? It looked so odd...”
“Of course not, there is no way it could have...”
“Yes, you’re right...”
Vanille thought she was just jumpy from being so deep in enemy territory.
“Oh yeah, forgot about this.”
Fang was still holding onto the card. She pressed the black circle, and it lit up even brighter than it had before. There was a short electrical crackle, before the light went off and grew quiet.
“Did you break it!?”
“Probably.” Fang clicked her tongue, and pressed even the black circle even harder. It lit up again and the color drained and grew clear.
“Oh good! I guess it’s not broken after all.” Vanille said in relief. She leaned over to get a closer look. Though the other card had shown the face of it’s owner, this one showed nothing at all. No, writing on the card, but the place where the face should have been was blank. It looked as though the owner had been erased.
“Oh, maybe it is broken?”
“Maybe.” Fang poked at the black part again. The screen changed and words formed. But unfortunately the words were written in the writing of Cocoon, which neither of them could read.
“Do you think that we’d be able to use it now?”
They had written over the original owner’s information, but there was no telling what would happen if they used it themselves. They had been lucky to get this far.
“Probably. But what will we do with it?”
“I don’t know...” Vanille lifted her hands in defeat. If they didn’t know how it worked, they wouldn’t be able to use it.
“Well, we should take them.”
“We might as well.” We’re becoming thieves, Vanille thought. There was a sound. Voices! And coming closer fast. Without a sound they stood up, and ran.
“They really are our enemies...” Vanille whispered.
“Did you say something?”
“No, nothing.” Her heart felt heavy, but she forced a smile. Right now she had to concentrate on running. But there were so many things Vanille wished she could forget...

Once they returned to the temple, not all was as they had left it. There were signs that someone had used the elevator. An intruder.
“Someone from Cocoon is here.” Fang whispered, and readied her spear. They listened, but all was quiet. Vanille looked up to the vaulted ceiling.
This temple was originally meant to test those who would become l’Cie. In the deepest part of the temple they would face fal’Cie Anima to be both tried... and selected. Those who harbored wicked thoughts, or those unfit to become l’Cie, would be unable to open the holy gates. It was told in the teachings of the priests.
“Watch yourself.”
“I know.” They looked at each other and nodded, continuing down the path. Walking up the stairs, they tried to not let their footsteps be heard, and listened for any sounds of the intruder. Soon they reached the first door. If it was someone from Cocoon, they would not be able to open it, and would still be there, walking aimlessly in front of it.
“Well, they say that there are barbarians down there that are no better than animals, but...”
That is what the people of Cocoon thought of them. People who thought that would never be able to open the door. They weren’t even fit set foot inside this temple.
But there was no one in front of the door. The intruder must have opened the door and continued on.
“But this isn’t...” Vanille was at a loss for words. There were signs that someone had passed by here, but there was no time to stop and think The intruder could be nearing the center, they had to hurry.
The sound of their footsteps no longer concerned them. They rushed up the stairs, and then onto the elevator. But there was no one at the next door, nor the next. That should have been proof that the intruder wasn’t evil, but how could that be? The only way this could have happened would be if the people of Cocoon found a way to trick to holy gates.
“This can’t be happening...”
They had reached the deepest part of the temple. In the room beyond was the fal’Cie. Even they had only been there once. It wasn’t a place you could enter lightly.
The door swung open, and they found the intruder lying on the ground. Unconscious. It was a girl.
“She must have gotten lost.” Fang lowered her spear. The girl looked like she was the same age as Vanille, and held no weapons. “She’s all alone.” Fang looked at her with cold eyes. Vanille could tell what she was thinking. She was wondering whether or not she should be killed, so that she wouldn’t be able to speak of coming here to anyone. If they let her live, she would most likely bring people back here. Vanille looked over the fallen girl, and that’s when...
“Wait!” She knelt at the girl’s side, and grabbed her arm. “Look! This mark on her arm...”
It was the exact same mark as their own.
“She’s been made into a... l’Cie.”
She had the mark of a l’Cie chosen by fal’Cie Anima, one who would be given a Focus.
“Why....” Fang’s voice was shaking. “Why did you choose someone from Cocoon?” Her spear echoed through the chamber as it fell to the floor. “Why would the fal’Cie do this?”
There was no answer. The fal’Cie weren’t beings that could be questioned by humans.
“How could she be a l’Cie of Gran Pulse? Are you trying to say we’re the same as them?”
“But it’s someone from Cocoon. They can’t just be given a Focus...”
A Focus. When Vanille said the word, Fang touched her own arm. Below her hand Vanille could see her white, burnt-out l’Cie mark that no longer retained it’s original shape. Fang had lost her memory, she could no longer remember her own Focus. Oh, Vanille thought, so that’s why. She knew why the fal’Cie had chosen a new l’Cie.
“Well... let’s at least get her out of here.” Fang picked up the girl. She didn’t meet Vanille’s eyes, but Vanille knew that they had shared the same thoughts.
Fang left through the door. Picking up the spear from the floor, Vanille followed. She glanced back at fal’Cie Anima, but it remained silent.

Outside the temple, they laid the girl on the ground. But she still didn’t wake up.
“She’s our replacement...”
Of course Fang knew, had known since seeing the girl’s mark. Fang kept her head turned away, but Vanille could see that her face was sad.
“We’re pathetic l’Cie aren’t we? We can’t even remember our Focus. So the fal’Cie chose someone else.”
That’s not the only reason, Vanille whispered deep within her heart. It’s my fault. It’s all my fault because I... ran. The fal’Cie saw straight through me. Now it’s all my fault that this girl has been involved in our problems.
The girl’s eyelids fluttered. She was about to wake up. They couldn’t let her see them, so they hid in the shadows of the temple to watch her.
The girl sat up. She must have been dizzy, because she put her head between her knees and sat still for a moment. The mark on her arm had yet to catch her notice. Finally, she used the wall of the temple to drag herself on her feet. Then her eyes stopped, and stared at her arm. She had noticed the mark. The girl rubbed at it, as if doing so would make it disappear.
“Doesn’t she know about l’Cie? No... there are fal’Cie in Cocoon.”
“Maybe she just doesn’t know what it is because the shape is different?”
But then, what should they do? If she didn’t even realize she had to find her Focus, then she would turn into a Cie’th. But, unless they told her who they truly were, they would be unable to explain anything to her.
“Looks like she knows...”
She suddenly fell apart. They could hear her screaming that it was just something someone had scribbled on her arm. Even from there Vanille and Fang could see her mark evolve. The girl’s fear had effected it.
Now she must know. That she was chosen as a fal’Cie of Gran Pulse... no, of the “hell where barbarians live”.
The girl was crying. Even from far away they could see her thin shoulders trembling. Finally, pushed herself off from the wall, and walked on her trembling legs. She looked so small and sad.
This was something they would never be able to take back. The girl had nothing to do with anything, but she got caught up in their problems solely by the fact of her being there.
“Don’t make that face.”
“But...”
Once you were a l’Cie there was no going back. Her fate had been changed forever. And it was all their fault.
“The only thing we can do is find our Focus, and complete it. Finish it for good. Then we can go back to Gran Pulse.”
If the girl was meant to be their replacement, then their Focus would have to be the same. If they completed it, then she wouldn’t have to become a Cie’th. That must have been what Fang was thinking. But even if they completed their Focus, the girl was from Cocoon... Vanille stopped. The truth was too cruel.
“Fang, let’s forget about our Focus.”
Fang’s mark was dead. Even if she didn’t complete her Focus, she might not become a Cie’th. If that was true, then they didn’t need to think about their Focus anymore.
“We won’t.” She tapped Vanille on the leg. “Your mark is still alive. If we don’t complete our Focus, you’ll become a Cie’th.”
“It’s alright, I don’t...”
“You’re the one who said we’d always be together, forever!” Fang cupped Vanille’s face in her hands.
“We’ll always be together...”
“Yes.”
“And we will go home together...”
“That’s what we promised, remember?”
Vanille placed her hands against Fang’s, and nodded.
“No, you’re right... I...”
They had promised so long ago. They would be alright as long as they were together. They would never be parted. It was a promise she never wished to break.

Chapter Four

The overwhelming number of people did not bother her as much as it had the previous day, and Vanille felt calm and relaxed as she walked through the streets.
Not wanting to run into those two men they had met the other day, Vanille suggested they walk in an area slightly apart from the place they had been the day before. Fang insisted that if they saw them again it would be easy for her to take them out, but she agreed to the plan anyway.
The street they had seen yesterday had been lined with clothing and accessory shops, but today the place they found themselves in had an abundance of both food and drink.
“Look look, they’re selling vegetables!”
The stalls were bursting with colors of bright green, yellow and red. On closer inspection they saw that each was large and looked fresh.
“Nothing like those vegetables from the garden we saw the other day.”
“But don’t these look, I don’t know, artificial? Like someone made them. I wonder if you can even eat them.”
The vegetables were unnaturally matched in size and shape, like each was a replica of another. The ones they had picked from the garden were scrawny and tasteless, but you could tell they were meant to be eaten.
“Maybe they have some strange way of making them.”
“Well, it is Cocoon.” Vanille imagined them pressing colored liquid into the shape of vegetables. Surely not, she thought, shaking her head.
“They can’t support this many people with a little pathetic garden like the one we saw.”
“Cocoon is pretty big...”
“... maybe if we go somewhere else I’ll be able to get my memory back.”
Vanille didn’t answer, looking off into the crowd. Fang was getting impatient, Vanille understood that. She looked at Fang, knowing what she was thinking. That girl had been turned into a l’Cie because of them. Because they were taking so long to complete their Focus.
But that was wrong, Vanille knew that was wrong. Fang wasn’t the one who had screwed up. That blame was all Vanille’s. She sighed, then looked up as she felt Fang turn around beside her.
“Fang?”
“Wait over there.”
“Wait!” But Vanille didn’t stop her in time. She could only watch as Fang disappeared into the crowd. It seemed she would have no choice but to wait for Fang’s return. She leaned against the nearest wall.
Most of the shoppers walking in and out of the shops were women, and many of them had children tagging along with them. Perhaps because the shops here sold food stuffs, and the women were buying dinner for their families. But there was something strange about them, as she watched Vanille thought there was something unnatural in what they were doing. Then she realized: most of the people coming out of the grocery were empty-handed. While some of the might have simply not bought anything, it was unthinkable that it would be true for all of them.
“Maybe they get it delivered?” Vanille thought. On Gran Pulse you could pay to get things delivered that were bulky or heavy, but something small like food was something you took home yourself. So maybe... but there could be another reason entirely.
Vanille just shook her head, confused.
“Did you wait long?”
Suddenly Vanille felt something cold pressing up against her forehead. She screamed and jumped.
“Haha, sorry about that.” Fang smiled, and held out a can of some sort of drink. “You’re so jumpy.”
“I can’t help it...” Vanille said, pouting, but she took the can. “Where did you get this?”
“Bought it.”
Vanille looked at the can, then looked up at Fang. Where did she get the money? They didn’t even know if cash was used on Cocoon.
“I used this.” Fang said, pulling out the card they had taken yesterday. “Cocoon’s such a weird place. I can’t believe you can get anything with something like this.” She opened up her can and took a drink, motioning for Vanille to do the same. The can was a little strange, but it wasn’t difficult to figure out how to open it.
“Oh! It’s good.”
“I told them to give me the sweetest drink they had.”
After the watery, tasteless stuff they had been eating recently, it was amazing drinking something where you could actually taste the sweetness. It was wonderful.
“So how do you buy stuff with this?”
“I don’t know how it works. I just copied what everyone else was doing. Like them.” Fang said, pointing to the people in the shop nearby. Vanille could see that the woman there had a card like the one they carried.
“I watched the people in a store I passed by, and I thought hey, maybe that’s how it works.”
“So then those two men from yesterday really didn’t have any money.”
“But they actually do have some cash on Cocoon.” Fang looked over to a different store. It was pink and white with cute decorations hung on the story front. A candy store. There were children running in and out of it, holding candy. Apparently taking your allowance to the candy store to buy some sweets was something children on both Cocoon and Gran Pulse enjoyed. “Kids use cash.” Fang said.
They could see that all of the adults used cards. Sometimes the owner of the card would press something on the card, or put something on the card. Then sometimes the store clerk would run the card through a strangely shaped machine. It seemed there were many ways to use the card.
“I saw a shop where they were selling weapons. So long as we have this we can buy some.” Fang grinned. “We can fight.”
“But...” Those two men had been shockingly weak. Fang could defeat them bare-handed. Even the fish and the birds had been pathetic. Probably all the creatures on Cocoon, including humans, did not know how to fight.
“Weren’t we chosen as l’Cie to fight Cocoon?”
“Yes but... right now there would be no reason...”
“Yeah... it’s so peaceful here. We probably don’t even have to fight.”
“Yes. Let’s not fight.” Vanille nodded. Her voice sounded strange to her ears, she wondered if Fang noticed.
“Even if we won’t be fighting, what is our Focus? If we don’t find out...”
That again. It always comes back around to that, Vanille thought, sighing. A loud voice intruded on her thoughts.
“Before we do that, why don’t we go on the fal’Cie tour?”
Vanille and Fang glanced at each other.
“We could just go to Euride on our last day.”
“But the closer it gets to the fireworks festival, the more crowded it will be.”
“That’s true.”
A group of older women passed by, talking in high spirits. What had they meant by “fal’Cie tour”? And Euride? Perhaps that was a place where the Cocoon fal’Cie was enshrined. Fang and Vanille snuck in behind the women, trying to remain unobtrusive, to listen for more important information.
“Why don’t we get a private car? With all of us together the price shouldn’t be too high.”
“No, no. Going by regular train should be just fine.”
The fal’Cie in Euride must be far if they were planning on taking a train there.
“I wonder how often the train comes? It should be fine if we don’t have to wait too long.”
“Why don’t we ask at Bodhum Station?”
“Then we’re agreed? Alright, my daughter asked me to pick up something at this shopping mall...”
That was all they had to say about the fal’Cie. Now their conversation slipped into what they were going to buy or what they should plan to eat. Just when they realized they weren’t going to get any more out of the women, the group went into a shop. Fang and Vanille walked passed the shop’s door without stopping.
“It was ‘Euride’ that they said, right?”
“Yes, the leader of these thieves...”
They couldn’t say for certain whether or not it was the same one who had stolen from them, but all the fal’Cie of Cocoon were the same to them.
“Then we must go and pay our respects.”
“We’re going to go and see it!?”
“If we go and see the fal’Cie of the enemy then maybe we’ll understand what our Focus is. Or maybe I’ll get my memory back... something will happen.”
“But Euride must be far. They said they were taking a train there.”
Neither Fang nor Vanille had ever ridden on a train. The train that ran by their home was something that ran all the way to the ends of the earth. They weren’t unusual in this. No one in their village had ever ridden on a train. People just didn’t ride on trains, not usually.
That’s why they had been surprised to hear a couple of old ladies talking so casually about riding on a train. It made them question their initial opinion that Cocoon was a pathetic sort of place.
“I’ll go any distance if I can get my memory back.”
“But we might not have enough money. I mean, we might not be able to ride with this card alone.” She didn’t want to go to Euride. She didn’t want to face a fal’Cie of Cocoon.
“Is that all?” Fang said, laughing. “We can go to the station and check. There are lots of ways we can get money. It will be fine. Let’s just go.” Fang turned on her heel. Once she made up her mind, that was the end of it. There was no way to stop her now. Vanille would just have to be prepared for whatever would come. She sighed, and followed after Fang’s footsteps.

Before they could find out more on how to get to Euride, they had to find out where Bodhum station was first. They had thought if they had just walked a bit they would find it, but that was not the case. So, while buying ingredients for dinner, they asked where they could find it. They thought people might look at them oddly if they started asking where the station was, but they needn’t have worried.
It seemed there were quite a lot of travelers who came here, and so strangers were quite common. They would say, “Oh, are you on vacation? Well where are you from?” In fact, Fang and Vanille thought they were being a little too friendly.
They were told that any shop in the city carries maps for travelers, which can be taken for free. They were put there so that travelers unused to the city would not get lost.
“Putting up maps for travelers? That seems dangerous.”
A map like that, one that could show you every place in the city at a glance, would become a weakness in the hands of the enemy. A map was an important document meant to be kept secret. Vanille couldn’t help but think badly of people who didn’t even know something as simple as that. But the clerk looked at her oddly when she mentioned this. Apparently people on Cocoon didn’t think that way.
They left as soon as the clerk marked the station on the map for them. If they had stayed any longer they might have given themselves away. They were more worried about their words or actions making them seem suspicious than they were of the clothing they wore.
Fortunately, the station wasn’t to far off. It was about fifteen minutes walk from the shopping mall, and very close to the temple. But if they hadn’t been given this map, they weren’t sure they would have realized this was a station. The station at Bodhum looked familiar and yet very different from the station they were familiar with on Gran Pulse.
“It doesn’t look anything like a station. It looks more like a... store or something.”
“And look at that train.” Fang pointed as they got closer to the station. “It doesn’t look like it would stay on the track.”
The train had a very rounded design. Saying it couldn’t stay on the track was not quite correct, but it did seem to be lacking something.
“If a monster attacked it, it would go flying right off.”
Trains on Gran Pulse were made large and sturdy to withstand attacks by large monsters. Both the window frames and the roofs were made of a thick material to avoid being smashed in.
“I wonder if it will even make it to Euride okay.” Vanille said. Fang shrugged.
“No use worrying. First we’ve got to find out when the train leaves. Then we’ve got to know how much it costs and how many days it will take.”
They thought just by going into the station that they’d be able to find out all the answers, but they were wrong. They didn’t know how to search for anything. First of all, there were so many different platforms that they didn’t know where to go. On Gran Pulse there was only one, but here in Bodhum there were several, and it seemed that each had a train that was going to a different place.
Even more surprising were how many trains were arriving. In their hometown the train only came in the morning and in the evening.
“What... what should we do?”
They wandered around the inside of the building, but still couldn’t figure any of it out.
“Are you alright? Can I help you?”
It was a young mother with a small child She must have seen that they were confused.
“Um... well, we want to go to Euride, but...”
“To visit the fal’Cie? The train to Euride leaves from platform number one.”
Vanille and Fang exchanged glances and breathed a sigh of relief. Saved!
“Have a good trip.” The young woman said, turning.
“Um, wait please! Can I ask you one more question?” There were still more things they had to ask.
“How much does it cost to get to Euride? Can we get there with this?” Vanille said, pulling out the card. The young woman laughed.
“Well, I don’t know what your credit limit is, but I can tell you it will definitely be enough, so long as you don’t get a special car.”
The women they had seen before had talked of something like that too, though they mentioned a “private car”. It seemed there were many different ways to get to Euride.
“And, um... how many trains go each day to Euride?”
“How many? Hmm... well...” She cocked her head to the side to think. That must mean there weren’t very many.
“Oh, please don’t tell me there is only one every couple of days.”
“Huh?”
“Oh no, will we have to wait several days before one comes?” Vanille began to worry. What would they do if they had to wait that long? But the young woman’s laughter cut across her panic like a knife.
“Oh dear, you girls are so funny. It will be alright. Just go to the station and wait a bit, one should come soon enough.”
“Really...?”
“It’s just you asked me how many come in one day, and I’ve never really counted them before. There are just so many.”
It seemed they had said another strange thing. But fortunately this time they had no need to apologize. This time the young woman just laughed.
“If you don’t want to wait for the train, you can always take an airbike. There is a place where you can rent them just outside the station. The price to rent a two-seater isn’t too much different from the cost of a train ticket.”
“Um, no... no, I like trains.”
Actually, neither one of them knew how to drive an airbike, but she decided not to say so. If airbikes were something that even children on Cocoon knew how to use, they’d be thought of as suspicious again.
“Alright then, be careful and have a good trip.” The young woman took the child’s hand and walked over to another platform, a different one from the train that goes to Euride.
“Oh no! I forgot to ask...”
“What?”
“How many days it will take to get to Euride.”
“Ah...”
But it really didn’t matter. They knew they would be able to cover the price of the ticket, and they knew where to get on the train. That was all the information they needed.
“I hope if we leave tomorrow we can at least arrive by the day after that...”
“It doesn’t matter how long it will take, so long as we can meet this fal’Cie.”
Vanille’s heart grew heavy when she heard the word fal’Cie. Just when she had managed to forget it, Fang had reminded her once again.
“Are you tired?” Fang looked at her, worried.
“Well, just a little.” Vanille replied, and tried her best to smile.

Chapter Five

The train slipped from Bodhum station as though gliding on water. It began with the people on the platform slowly moving off into the distance, then soon the entire city began rushing passed.
“Wow...” Vanille and Fang both leaned against the train window, watching the city rush by them. Soon they were out of the city and hugging the coastline.
“Look at that! That island is floating!”
“Oh wow...”
They felt eyes on their backs and turned, to find the other passengers staring at them in surprise. Vanille and Fang hastily returned to their seats. They hadn’t even realized their faces had been pressed to the window. You could still see the fog left from their breath.
Someone sniggered. Vanille turned red and looked at her feet.
Glancing out the window again, Vanille saw the ocean sparkling with the sunlight that fell across it. Suddenly the train swerved, and the lead car came into view. Vanille was shocked. There were no rails underneath the train. Look at that! Vanille mouthed, covering her mouth with her hands so no one could see what she was saying. She didn’t want to draw attention to themselves again, but she couldn’t contain her excitement. She pulled at Fang’s arm, pointing out the window at the floating islands. Fang nodded.
“The technology they have on Cocoon is just amazing.” Vanille whispered in Fang’s ear. Maybe, if they searched every corner of Gran Pulse, they could find something like this. Though it was unlikely that they would ever find a train that could flying through the air.
One of the floating islands was coming up near their window, but as soon as it was there it rushed passed and behind them. The train was weaving among the islands like a thread in cloth.
“Look! It’s an airbike!” The voice of a young boy squealed from the seat in front of them. Vanille craned her neck to try and see what he was talking about. There were three vehicles just outside the train. These must be the airbikes that woman had told them of yesterday.
“Their so fast! Daddy, which is faster? An airbike or your airship?”
“Of course my airship is faster.” Unlike the young boy, who was too short to see, they could see the top of his father’s head. His hair was like a bird’s nest, it almost seemed as if a little bird would come poking it’s head out at any moment.
“There are lots of islands.”
“The city of Bodhum is made up of lots of islands. ” He explained to his son. His voice sounded kind.
“Is that Bodhum? That place that floats up really high?”
“Really high? No that’s not Bodhum. That’s a place called ‘Eden’. And Eden isn’t an island.”
Her ears perked up when she heard “Eden”. That was the place those two men had talked about the other day. But it seemed it wasn’t a mountain or a valley. It was a high place, but not a floating island? Then what was it?
“Daddy? Have you ever been to Eden?”
“Of course I have, I’m a pilot. I’ve even been to a place called Palumpolum. They have more stores than any other city in Cocoon.”
“Do they have a toy store?”
“Lots!”
“And a chocobo store?”
“They have lots of pet stores.”
“No! A chocobo store!”
“Well, I don’t know about that...”
They weren’t talking about anything important, but Vanille enjoyed listening to them. This is probably what it was like to have a family. They continued talking about all the places his pilot father had been. There was a place where they kept monsters and let them roam free, a city that was filled with games and other fun things...
Vanille began to realize, as she listened to them, how many different places Cocoon had, and how many people must live here. If only they weren’t enemies, if only the fal’Cie of Cocoon hadn’t stolen so much from them... they could go to and from Cocoon and Gran Pulse freely. What a wonderful world that would be.
She didn’t want to fight. Not with this father and his son, or that young mother they met at the station yesterday, or that group of elderly women. She didn’t want to hurt a single one of them. But I’m probably wrong, Vanille thought. I’ve always been told we must fight. But... I’m weak, so I don’t want to fight. Fang would never feel like this. Never feel lost. She would fight no matter what the cost. But....
Fang doesn’t fight because she is strong, though she is quite strong. She fights because she is kind. She can never forgive those who hurt the people she loves. But that is why I can’t let her fight, Vanille thought. Fang would never forgive herself if she hurt someone who was innocent.
“Your mark is still alive. If we don’t complete our Focus, you’ll become a Cie’th.”
Vanille remembered the words Fang had said the day before. It didn’t matter which path she chose. To fight, or not to fight. Whatever path she chose, and all the paths she has chosen in the past, only leads to Fang’s sorrow.
“Hey, what’s up?”
Vanille looked up, surprised. She had gone off into her own head, and had not realized. She looked out the window, and noticed they had stopped. They were at a station.
“Where... what station is this?”
“The last stop. Didn’t you hear? They said it was Euride Station.”
All the passengers were standing up and forming a line down the aisle. The father and son who had sat in the seat in front of them were already gone.
“I’m glad I didn’t ask how many days the trip would take...” Vanille said, sighing.

Slipping into the line of passengers, they exited the train. They had no worries of getting lost, as all the passengers were walking in the same direction.
A plaza stretched out in front of the station, and beyond that was a building that looked something like an energy plant. The plaza had stalls selling balloons and candy, and was as noisy and filled with people as the shopping mall in Bodhum.
There were people taking pictures of themselves in front of the energy plant, young couples walking hand in hand, a group of young boys, an elderly couple... all of Euride had a very festive atmosphere.
One corner of the plaza had a group of students listening attentively to their teacher.
“This plant is maintained by fal’Cie Kujata, and it creates most of the energy that is used in the cities close to Euride. All of the things that make our lives easier run on the energy created in this plant. Do all of you understand?”
“Yes!” The children screamed, their voices excited. The adults walking beside them smiled.
“I can’t believe these people.” Fang whispered. “They know nothing about how their fal’Cie took everything from us.”
“Yeah... they know nothing...” But was ignorance a sin? Vanille wondered. Even if they did know, it would be a sin. Then no matter what they were in the wrong. Both paths led only to sorrow.
Hey Fang? Can I choose nothing? Can I turn my eyes away from all of this...?
It’s okay to run, she whispered to herself. Looking at Fang, she knew this was something she would never be able to say to her.
“Once we complete our Focus, we can leave all this behind. Right, Vanille?”
Instead of answering, Vanille grabbed Fang’s hand. Just like when they were children, together against a world of enemies. So long as they were together, they could stay alive. So long as the were together, it didn’t matter where they ran...
“We will get home. We will.” Even if it went against Fang’s own wishes.
The energy plant where fal’Cie Kujata awaited was just in front of them. Vanille tightened her grip on Fang’s hand, and allowed them to be swept along with the crowd of people.

Part III: Treasure (Family)

Chapter One

Who would have thought it’d turn out to be such a big deal?
Soldiers everywhere, everything’s messed up. When I first met you, it was so peaceful. Let’s see now... that was eight days ago wasn’t it? Yeah, just eight days. In that time, all this has happened. I don’t even know what’s going on anymore.
Just can’t believe it. Dad has completely given up. Well, you have too...

“Daddy, I want that one!”
Dajh was tugging at his hand, and Sazh stopped without even thinking about it. When children demand things from their parents they’ll pull and tug and run around until they get what they want. His son Dajh was only six, but he could pull an adult like Sazh over without trying.
“Hey, why don’t we buy it on the way back?”
Sazh had brought Dahj to Ewleede Canyon. He couldn’t remember when it was, but Dajh had said he wanted to see a fal’Cie.
If you wanted to see a fal’Cie on Cocoon, the only place to go was to Ewleede, to see fal’Cie Kujata. Sazh had searched around, and he had found a free spot on what looked like the perfect tour package. “A Family Vacation: Visit Ewleede and Bowdam”, had been the tour name. The airship and hotel room would be reserved for you, and they’d give you some free time to explore the places yourself. The price for children had a nice discount, and it looked like fun.
That’s why they were now headed from Ewleede Station to the energy plant. The place was filled with tourists, and every corner had a souvenir shop. Sazh had known that Dajh would want to stop somewhere. He’d want some animal shaped balloon, or perhaps brightly colored candy would catch his eye...
“No! Now! Now!”
Dajh pulled on his hand even harder. All children are like this, saying what they want when they want it. Sazh remembered doing it too, and how happy he’d be he’d get what he wanted.
But there was something he hadn’t realized as a child. The adults who gave them what they wanted were even happier to do it.
“Alright, alright. Just this once.” Just saying that made him start to smile.
“So, what is it you want?”
They were in front of a pet shop. This wasn’t just some local shop, but a chain that had shops everywhere.
“I want the yellow one!”
“Let’s see, which one is it?”
There were lots of different cages lined up in front of the shop. Just to show how big the shop was, they didn’t have only your normal dogs and cats, but they also had monsters that had their genes rearranged to be non-threatening.
“The yellow one, which yellow one?” His eyes stopped.
“Not... you don’t mean... that one?”
In one of the huge cages there was a big yellow Pudding, just sitting there. The Pudding was stretching out it’s body, trying to look menacing.
“Hey kid, you mean this yellow one don’t ya?” The shopkeeper smiled at Dajh and flapped his hands.
“Yeah, that one!” Dajh nodded, and made the same motion. It looked like they were imitating a bird.
“All kids mean this when they say ‘the yellow one’.” The shopkeeper said, pointing at a sign that said, “Baby Chocobos in Stock!”
“Oh, just a chocobo.” He had panicked when he’d thought Dajh had meant the Pudding, but he had no problems with a baby chocobo.
“Alright then, we’ll take one of the yellow ones.”
Dajh’s face lit up when he heard the words. Dajh loved chocobos. His favorite picture book was about a chocobo, he even had a chocobo print towel he’d used to shreds.
“Great! Then please come inside the shop.” The shopkeeper tried to take Dajh by the hand.
“No, I’ll wait here!” Dajh said. He was proud that he now could wait on his own when his father had to do something. Now he wanted to wait by himself all the time.
“Alright, but you can’t move from this spot. Got it?”
Dajh nodded, getting a mischievous look on his face. Of course Sazh knew what he was planning, which is why he always told him to not move. Recently Dajh wasn’t satisifed with just waiting by himself, so he’d play a game. He’d wait until Sazh had entered a store, then hide himself in the shadows. When Sazh came looking for him he’d wait, all excited, until he was found.
When he entered the shop, the shopkeeper was just opening up the cage. That’s when one of the chocobos dashed from the cage and flew straight at Sazh.
“Hey, looks like he likes you.” He smiled and closed the cage when he saw the baby chocobo flying around Sazh.
“Does it? Can’t really tell.” His eyes met the baby chocobo’s when he looked up. The chocobo cocked his head. Just when he started thinking it was cute, it’s eyes flashed. The next moment, the chocobo dived at Sazh.
“Ow!” The chocobo had landed right on the top of Sazh’s head.
“Hey, don’t use your claws like that!” The chocobo chirped in answer. Sazh couldn’t tell whether it was saying ‘Okay!’ or ‘Do you think I care?’, but either way it seemed happy.
Once he’d finished paying, he left the shop in a hurry with the chocobo riding on top of his head. He wanted to show Dajh the chocobo as soon as he could.
Or so he’d thought. But Dajh was nowhere to be found. Well, this was how it always was.
“Hey, Dajh? Are you playing hide and seek?” He made as if he were looking around. Of course he was just hiding somewhere in the shadows. Soon he’d hear Dajh laughing from somewhere nearby. Small children don’t hide so they won’t be found, they hide so they’ll get picked up in a big hug.
“Hey, looks like I lost. I can’t find you!” He said, pretending to give up. But still he didn’t hear Dajh laugh.
“Dajh...?”
He looked around. On the other side of the bench, in the cart’s shadow, behind the flower box. But Dajh was no where to be seen. But maybe... the energy plant was just over there.
“You didn’t go in there did you?”
Sazh ran to the entrance of the plant. Children will do the same things over and over and never get tired of them, but then suddenly one day they’ll do something new. Children are good at this. That’s how they grow up. I won’t be letting him wait on his own for awhile, Sazh thought. Dajh probably thought it would be fun to try going somewhere else on his own while he was waiting.
When he was in front of the entrance, he looked back at the plaza once more just in case. There were lots of children his age, but he couldn’t see Dajh. He really must have gone into the plant alone. Sazh started getting worried.
That’s when it happened. The ground trembled as though something huge had fallen. From far away he could hear the sound of air blowing. The children playing in the plaza all started crying and screaming.
“Dajh!” Sazh ran towards the entrance. Something bad just happened. He was certain.
“Dajh where are you?”
An emergancy siren sounded. A loud noise that cut through the screams. Tourists were rushing towards the entrance as fast as they could. Sazh wanted to get on with searching for Dajh, but the wave of people pushed and shoved him. He was unable to move an inch. He pushed through, trying to make way through the people. They yelled at him and complained, but he had no time for that now.
It took awhile, but he finally heard the energy plant staff telling the tourists to calm down and exit in an orderly manner. It had probably took them so long because they had been surprised as well.
He could still hear and feel the ground trembling. White smoke was billowing out, and he couldn’t tell what was happening inside. Was there a fire or an explosion?
“Dajh! Where are you Dajh?” Sazh accidentally breathed in the smoke, but it didn’t make him cough. It wasn’t smoke, but some sort of mist. Just what was happening in there...?
There weren’t many people along the walkway. Probably everyone else had already run. Maybe Dajh had been taken with them? No, that didn’t seem right. He felt as though Dajh was somewhere close by.
“Dajh! It’s dad! Please answer me!” He was right in front of fal’Cie Kujata. He yelled louder. The white mist had become even thicker than it was before, and he could hear a loud sound like air escaping. He continued on, being careful to check everywhere around him.
Then he saw the familiar color of Dajh’s clothes.
“Dajh!”
Dajh was laid out along one of the resting benches. He ran over and gathered him up in his arms.
“Daddy...?”
“It’s alright, everything is alright. Are you hurt?” He spoke in a calm voice to reassure him, checking his arms and legs.
“Huh? What’s this?”
There was a strange mark he’d never seen on the back of Dajh’s hand. At first he thought it was a sticker, but it was something else. It looked like the body paint some of those kids liked to put on. Even so, how could he have...?
No, there would be time to think about it later. Right now they had to leave, get somewhere safe. He picked up Dajh, to carry him, when he heard the sound of footsteps closing in behind him.
“Hey! Are you alright?”
It was a soldier on the security force. He’d be able to lead them to a safer place.
“My child, he...”
“Is he hurt? Did he hit his head?”
“I don’t know. We got separated, and then...”
It probably said in the emergency procedure manual not to listen to the whole story. They unfolded a stretcher and placed Dajh on it. A female soldier stood close, looking into Dajh’s face.
“You don’t have to be scared, everything will be alright.”
She was probably checking too see whether he was conscious or not while she talked. She walked over to soldiers and nodded.
“Take him to the first-aid room. Please come this way sir.”
We’re saved, Sazh thought, everything will be alright. He nodded, and walked after them.

The first-aid room was crowded with tourists who had hurt themselves while running away, or were otherwise not feeling well. When Dajh was on the stretcher, he had remained quiet, but now that he laid in bed he couldn’t take it anymore. Dajh began moving about, unable to keep still. He looked up at Sazh.
“Hey, daddy--”
“Shhh.” He said, laying a hand on Dajh’s shoulder. “You’ll have to stay quiet until the doctor can have a look at you.”
“Okay...” Dahj nodded sadly. There was some commotion out in the hallway. Did they just bring in an emergency patient? The door to the first-aid room burst open, and several soldiers marched in. You could tell they weren’t from the security force here, not just by their clothes, but by their cold demeanor.
“We are now in a state of emergency. As of now the plant and the surrounding area of Ewleede are under PSICOM supervision. You will obey any orders given.”
A young woman was standing at the front of the soldiers. She wore her beauty and intelligent like a cloak. But, perhaps it was the glasses, her gaze seemed cold and severe.
“Currently all airship landings at Ewleede Station will be suspended. We will be setting up a tent in the plaza in front of the energy plant for you to use as a waiting area, so we would like everyone who has been seen by a doctor to go there. Anyone who has not been seen and medical staff will go to the first-aid tent. As of now this place is off-limits.”
The first-aid room grew noisy, but only for a moment. Then on the woman’s orders the soldiers separated the people into groups and made them form a line, leading them outside. That was neatly done, Sazh thought, PSICOM has always been good at this sort of thing.
Sazh and Dajh went to the end of the line going to the first-aid tent. But then he felt a hand laying on his shoulder.
“Is this the child who collapsed in front of the fal’Cie?”
It was the woman in the glasses who led the soldiers. She lowered her voice as she spoke to Sazh.
“My name is Jihl Nabaat of PSICOM. I wish to speak with you about your son. Please come with me.”
“About my son?”
She lifted a finger to her lips, indicating him to quiet.
“I know you’d like to speak of it now, but please follow my orders. I will explain in more detail, but here... there are too many people.”
Her words held hidden meaning. Just what was happening? What had happened to Dajh? There were so many questions he wanted to ask, but this was PSICOM. This was someone who held a high position. The only thing Sazh could do was nod.

Chapter Two

They pretended we were emergency patients, carrying us away and loading us on a PSICOM airship. Sometimes one of the higher ups in PSICOM would come by, saying they had to ‘observe’ us. That Nabaat woman kept saying it was a ‘lucky accident’ or something like that. PSICOM’s specialty is... well, they call them the “Menace of Pulse”. I wondered what was so luck about PSICOM being at the plant.
No, I didn’t care about that, so long Dajh was alright. So long as he was safe. But they didn’t explain anything to me, they just dragged us to Eden and put us in the military’s medical facility. She said she’d tell us the details later, but with the medical staff watching over us on the airship there was no time for that.
Because they said, “The safety of your son is of the utmost importance.” I didn’t say anything.
Dad was all shook up, so I complete forgot to let you and Dajh meet. But you weren’t exactly able to at the time, were you? You were hiding in dad’s hair, so shocked you couldn’t even move, right? When you finally flew out it was night, and I was getting into bed. They’d put me in a different room from Dajh. I was all alone, so it gave me quite a start.
Of course I couldn’t sleep. I couldn’t stop thinking about the word that Lieutenant Nabaat said: “The Mark of the l’Cie”.

By the next day, nothing had changed. Sazh still didn’t know what was going on. He cornered one of the medical staff, but they’d only tell him that they were still investigating. Or they’d tell him that Lieutenant Nabaat would explain everytime to him at a later time. If he asked where she was, they’d only tell him they didn’t know. He thought that they were probably hiding something, but it seemed the staff here really had no idea. They weren’t in charge of the investigation on Dajh, but one of the higher ups, a specialist.
Maybe they felt sorry for Sazh, who was out of his mind with worry. The medical staff attempted to find out about Lieutenant Nabaat, but couldn’t get much farther than he could. The Lieutenant was out on duty, she couldn’t even be contacted.
“Lieutenant Nabaat is a very important person. She is one who the Sanctum relies on. There is nothing we can do.”
The young woman who’d done everything she could to help him looked regretful. According to her, Nabaat had graduated at the top of her class. After that, she had moved quickly to the position of Lieutenant, and it wouldn’t be too long before she attained even higher positions.
If someone like that was involved, then what had happened at Ewleede was no simple accident. It looked like he and Dajh got wrapped up in some serious business. That he was sure of.
“We will get in contact with her, so you can get an explanation as soon as possible. I know you’re worried, but please wait a little longer.”
“I understand, just... as soon as you can, please.” Sazh thanked her, and returned to his room. It wasn’t a sickroom, but a place set aside for the family of patients. It was set up like a hotel. It even had a machine where you could access the shops, among other things.
When he stopped in front of the machine, the baby chocobo flew out from his hair. It had probably been watching to see if it was safe, so it hadn’t come out before.
“Play around as much as you want. I’m going to try and get some information.” He turned on the machine, and accessed the library. He wanted to find out more about this “Mark of the l’Cie” that Nabaat had been talking about earlier.
Of course he’d heard of l’Cie. It was something he had known about since he was a child. Everyone born on Cocoon heard about them in old stories and fairy tales. But how does that fairy tale relate to reality? He couldn’t think of any way they could have anything to do with Dajh and the accident at Ewleede. He had probably heard wrong, and it was actually a different word. Not really l’Cie. If that was the case, then what could it be? He wanted to know what Nabaat had been trying to say.
He figured that his search would only come up with the titles of children’s books. But he was wrong. There were more history books listed than he would have imagined. There were copies of old texts, and videos of reference libraries there as well.
Sazh was trying to think of which one he should try first, when the baby chocobo came flying down on the control panel. The screen changed.
“Hey now, don’t touch the machine! If you’re going to play around, go over there.” He reached for the cancel button, but he looked closer at what had come up on the screen. It was a picture of an old text, strange symbols and writing carved into rock.
“What in the world is this?”
He recognized that symbol. In fact, he had just seen it half a day before. It was the mark he had seen on the back of Dajh’s hand. Sazh read the accompanying text that went with the picture, and he paled.
The “Mark of the l’Cie” that Nabaat had been talking about... wasn’t just something he had misheard.

Chapter Three

I’ve never really understood the phrase “everything went black” until now. But it’s true. Not really black, but just not being able to see anything at all. No matter what you were looking at, it just won’t register.
I remember accessing the information from some University research group, or some think tank or something like that. But I don’t remember what it said. I remember reading it, that I’m sure of. I think it said something about the “l’Cie of the Sanctum” or something like that.
But none of it was information I wanted to know, what I wanted to hear. You know what dad wants to hear right? Just one thing. One simple thing. That his son is going to be alright.
I don’t know why I thought Lieutenant Nabaat would be able to tell me that. I was panicked. Every new thing I read was just so unbelievable. I didn’t want to believe it. I thought some soldier who had graduated at the top of her class would be able to tell me otherwise. Like a life preserver I held on to that thought.
It was only several days later that I finally got to see her. Three days after the accident...

“I am sorry to have kept you waiting for three days.” Nabaat bowed her head deeply. “I am sure you’ve been quite worried.” Her expression was sorrowful.
They were in a medical observation room, watching a monitor on the wall. The monitor showed Dajh playing with something that looked like a puzzle. They said that this was one of the things they were using in their investigation. Sazh wasn’t allowed to visit him yet, but Nabaat had prepared this monitor room for him, so that he could at least see that his son was alright.
“Whatever, I don’t care. But Dajh, my son...” Let me take him home, Sazh wanted to say, but didn’t. He looked at Dajh on the monitor, happily clapping his hands. There was the symbol, right there on the back of his hand. I can’t ask yet, he thought, we have to do something about that first. Before we go home.
“You probably have already realized, but...”
Nabaat looked as though she were going to say something that was difficult. She breathed, and said what she wanted to say.
“Your son has been chosen to be a l’Cie. By fal’Cie Kujata.”
For the past three days, Sazh had searched and studied about the l’Cie, as much as time would allow. But it had only made him lose hope. Nabaat was the last glimmer he had left. He was sure she would say, “You’ve got it all wrong. There is no way your son could be a l’Cie.” and laugh his fears away.
But at her words he fell into despair. He didn’t even realize he was yelling.
“How could you joke about this? The l’Cie are nothing but some old story....”
“I understand how you’re feeling.” Nabaat closed her eyes sadly. Sazh was at a loss for words. Should he tell her, “You understand nothing!” Or could he tell her, “Don’t sympathize with me!” No, it wouldn’t change anything. No matter what he said, nothing would change. Instead, he shoved those feelings deep within his heart.
I don’t understand this. Any of it. Sazh clenched his fists in frustration.
“We were surprised also.” She continued quietly.
“According to record, a l’Cie has not been chosen for hundreds of years. Not since the War of Revelations.”
“Then why? Why did this happen to Dajh?”
Why was it Dajh? There had been other children in the same place, tons of them. Children the same age as Dajh. No, did it even have to be child? There were adults there. It wouldn’t have matter if they had chosen one of them instead. So why, why did it choose Dajh?
“To be honest, we don’t know. We can only think that he was judged as the best choice by the fal’Cie.”
“A six year old child? That’s ridiculous!”
“Mr. Katzroy...” She opened her mouth as if to say something, but turned her eyes away without saying anything at all. She knows something, Sazh thought. She’s still hiding something from me.
“What is PSICOM... the Sanctum, going to do with Dajh?” Nabaat had said in the airship that Dajh’s safety was important. But Sazh knew the army wouldn’t put out so much effort for one civilian child.
“If you’ll keep what I’m about to tell what a secret...”
Bingo, Sazh thought. Nabaat stared straight into his eyes.
“A great danger is approaching Cocoon. We have watched Pulse, and we know that an invasion is on the way.”
“Huh?”
What could she mean an invasion? From Pulse? This was too big, he couldn’t understand what she meant.
“The Sanctum is holding back on making a public announcement of this, but what happened at the plant was no accident. It was the work of enemies from Pulse.”
That white mist, the ground trembling, the Sanctum had announced it as nothing but an accident. But it had been something planned, something from Pulse.
“The reason there was so little destruction was because of Dajh. He was chosen by the fal’Cie to be a l’Cie.”
“Impossible. How could a six year old child do anything?”
It was unbelievable. How could a six year old do anything against enemies from Pulse?
“It’s the truth.” Nabaat said, cutting him off.
“But the enemies escaped, they are still at large. We don’t know when or where there will be another attack. That is why we are asking that you cooperate.”
“Cooperate?”
He still couldn’t think of it as anything but a horrible joke. Cooperate? With what?
“Dajh has been chosen. He is the key to saving Cocoon. He may not have knowledge of his power, but the Sanctum will be providing back up for him. He will stand in the face of the invasion from Pulse. So please, Mr. Katzroy, please help us.”
“I don’t know what to say to that. It’s just too... much.”
He wanted to hear a more concrete explanation. He didn’t understand any of this. He didn’t care about this invasion from Pulse. He just wanted to know when he’d be able to take Dajh home.
... was there any chance they’d be able to return to a normal life?
“Yes, yes I do understand.” Nabaat nodded several times. She didn’t seem like a soldier then, but a teacher talking to a small child.
“We aren’t asking you to do anything special. We’d just like you to watch over him.”
I probably look like a sulky child right at this moment, Sazh thought.
“We don’t know what Focus or powers Dajh has been given. We are trying to find out as soon as possible, that is what we are investigating now. Unfortunately we cannot allow you to visit him yet, but I understand that you are worried. So please...”
Focus? Oh, of course. If a l’Cie does not complete their Focus they’ll turn into a Cie Corpse. That’s what she was saying. Right now the most important thing was to discover what his “Focus” was. He understood. In his head he understood, but in his heart...
“I’ll try to see if you’ll be allowed to see him tomorrow. But we’ll have to do as many tests as we can today. So please, just wait one more day.”
There was nothing else Sazh could say.

Chapter Four

She wasn’t lying when she said tomorrow. It was evening, but I was finally allowed to see Dajh. I left you back in the room because I was worried if you went Dajh wouldn’t be able to figure out what his Focus was.
Don’t be mad! Dad really wants the two of you to meet. But the Lieutenant was right about kids. When something else takes their attention, they’ll forget about anything else. At the time, I didn’t really understand what they meant by Focus. Not really. But I was panicked. Not just then, but the whole time. I was just so... worried.
What does a six year old boy understand? Could he understand?
It’s all I could think about...

When they called Sazh in, it was a different room than he had been to yesterday. Instead of a monitor, there was a huge window. You could see the next room perfectly. But you couldn’t see into this room from the other side. If you could, Dajh would have seen him and come running. They probably used this room to monitor their subjects.
“Do you want to see him first? Or would you like me to tell you what we’ve found?”
“What you’ve found... please.”
He wanted to see Dajh very much, but he was worried about the results of tests. If he was thinking about it when he saw Dajh, he’d make his son worry. He thought it would be best to hear about it first.
In the next room there was an officer who was playing with Dajh. The man was probably in his early thirties. His cool silver hair and scar on his forehead looked as though it would scare children, but Dajh seemed to like him. The man probably liked children. His face looked grim, but you could tell by looking at him play with Dajh. Or perhaps he just took his duties seriously.
“Dajh is a good boy. He isn’t shy at all, and he listens to others.” Looking through the window, Nabaat smiled.
“Well his mother died when he was very young. He’s had to go to babysitters and through child care, so he’s gotten used to playing with other adults. That’s why I changed from a long distance route to a local one, so I could be more of a father.”
Before his wife had died three years ago, he had been all about his job. It had been his dream to become a pilot, and he had finally gotten signed on as a pilot for a long distance route. Everyday seemed perfect.
When he changed to a local route pilot all for his son, everyone was surprised. Even Sazh thought it was strange. He had worked so hard for it, to suddenly give it up like that. But he didn’t feel he was wrong. He realized for the first time what it was like to spend time with your child. It was fun, and it warmed his heart.
He didn’t want Dajh to be lonely, now that he didn’t have his mother. For the past three years he had worked and taken care of him as best he could. But, in reality, it was Dajh who had saved Sazh. His smiles and his laughter became things to live for.
“What did you find? Can you heal him of this... l’Cie thing?” I don’t want to lose Dajh’s smile, Sazh thought. But Nabaat’s eyes grew sad.
“With human technology... I’m sorry, but it’s just not possible.”
“No...” Sazh said, his voice seemed faint and far away. If Dajh doesn’t complete his Focus he’ll become a Cie Corpse. A monster. If he completes it he’ll become a crystal. The old texts had said, “The l’Cie who has completed their Focus will be turned to crystal and be granted eternity.” But to humans such a thing is the same as death.
Sazh looked to the other side of the window. The officer was giving Dajh a piggyback ride. Dajh was laughing and clapping his hands in delight. His smile was the same as ever, though now he was a ‘l’Cie’. Just because of some scribble on his hand, he’d never again to able to lead a normal life...
“And if you could take the mark off? If there was some sort of skin-grafting procedure, and you could just remove it?”
Even in the worst case, if they had to cut off his hand entirely, it would still be better than becoming a monster or a crystal. Even if he couldn’t use his hand anymore, he would still have a chance to live a happy life.
“We can’t. We don’t know what would happen to Dajh. There is so much we don’t know about the l’Cie... no, really we don’t know anything at all.”
“But...”
“I regret that there is nothing we can do about this. But right now we have to think about finding Dajh’s powers and Focus. We have to think of cutting off the mark as a last resort. We can’t rush this.”
That was easy to say, but they didn’t know how much time there was left. Whether the time limit for completing his Focus was tomorrow, or the day after, they couldn’t tell. It could even be a year or two from now...
“There has been some progress, however.”
“Progress? What are you talking about?”
“Well, this is still all hypothetical,” Nabaat started explaining, “It seems Dajh has the power to sense those from Pulse. He probably will be able to tell where the l’Cie that attacked Ewleede are, as well as the fal’Cie who controls them.”
The bit of hope he had fell back into despair. He can tell where those Pulse people were. But what would that do? He didn’t understand anything about that. He realized that this was the difference between himself and PSICOM. For those who are protecting Cocoon from Pulse, such an ability would definitely be seen as ‘progress’. They were the same as the fal’Cie. They only wanted to use Dajh.
He didn’t know what exactly it was he expected from PSICOM, from the Sanctum. He couldn’t depend on Nabaat or anyone in PSICOM. The only one who would do anything for Dajh would be himself.
“Please... let me see Dajh. Let me see my son.”
“Of course. Right this way please.” Nabaat stood up, smiling. He didn’t if it was because his feelings had changed, but he felt there was something cold behind her smile.
“Dajh has been very excited to hear that you’d be coming.”
What was she trying to make him do? He couldn’t trust her.
“Daddy!”
Dajh burst through the door as it opened.
“Dajh!”
Dajh leapt at him, and Sazh picked him up and held him. He felt the same as always. When he felt him in his arms, he realized what pain it would cause him if Dajh no longer existed. He didn’t want to lose this feeling, this warmth. He would protect him however he could.
“Hey, daddy...”
Quickly wiping his tears away from the corners of his eyes, he let Dajh down.
“What is it?” He knelt down and looked into Dajh’s face.
“I wanna see fireworks! Big ones!”
“Fireworks?”
“Yeah, big ones. Lots in the sky! Like this,” Dajh said, making a big circle in the air with his hands.
“Well, they still have all this testing to do, so maybe not now...”
“No! Fireworks! Big fireworks!”
He wanted to give Dajh anything he wanted. But he didn’t think PSICOM would let them. Now that they knew he had the power to feel those from Pulse, they would keep testing him until they knew his Focus.
“Well, how about after the tests?”
“No! The fireworks will be gone!”
Dajh was more insistent than usual. Normally, even if he’d demand what he wanted at first, eventually he’d give in and do as he was told. It made Sazh wish even more that he could give him what he wanted.
“But right now there are tests...” He looked at Nabaat. Dajh was a good kid, if it was explained to him that the tests were important, then he’d understand. He might be sad, but he’d still obey. But Nabaat said something completely unexpected.
“When you say they’ll be gone, do you mean the fireworks festival?”
That’s right, there was that fireworks festival in Bowdam a couple of days from now. He wondered if Dajh had noticed the posters that were up in Bowdam when they passed through on their way to see the fal’Cie.
“Why do you want to go? Do you like fireworks?”
Dajh looked up, as if searching for the answer. He pressed his lips together.
“What’s wrong Dajh?”
“..... it’s there.” He whispered, clinging to Sazh.
“What’s there?”
He pressed his nose against Sazh’s shoulder and shook his head.
“Okay, Dajh. We’ll all go see the fireworks together.” Nabaat said, while rubbing Dajh’s back. Was she serious?
“Lieutenant, are you sure we should...”
“I believe it would be worth checking out.” She pushed up her glasses with the tip of her finger, and nodded at the officer.
“We haven’t heard Dajh say anything like this before. It’s possible that if his power to sense those from Pulse is working, there will be something at the fireworks festival in Bowdam.”
Of course, how you treat others and how you treat your family is going to be different. Sazh kept quiet. They may want him to complete his Focus as soon as possible, but Sazh just wanted to take him to the fireworks festival. He didn’t want them testing Dajh anymore.

Chapter Five

We were going to see the fireworks. Dajh was so happy, he ran and jumped around the room, yelling and screaming. Probably because he was so sick of all the tests they were doing on him. Even though that PSICOM officer, or those children’s psychology specialists would play with him, he was still like a bird trapped in a cage.
They had tested him over and over, but still they couldn’t figure out his Focus. The only thing they knew was that he could feel the existence of things from Pulse. No, even that I thought wasn’t the truth. I thought they were probably just telling me lies, because PSICOM wasn’t getting the results they were hoping for.
I didn’t believe any of it until we were riding on the airship to Bowdam. Oh yeah, you were on the airship too. Do you remember how Dajh looked when he first saw you? It’s been a long time since I’ve seen him smile like that...

Sazh watched Dajh run up and down the passageways in the airship, his thoughts in turmoil. The baby chocobo was chasing after him. When the two boys... no, when the boy and the bird first met, they became friends right away. The cabin was in an uproar with the two of them bouncing about.
Well, since there weren’t any other passengers Sazh let them do what they liked. When he thought about how Dajh had been closed up in that room for so long, he felt he had a right to be running around and having fun like this. He couldn’t tell him no. Nabaat didn’t seem to be troubled by it either. In fact, she had one of her underlings made a record of Dajh playing with the chocobo. Maybe they were using it as another test.
“Daddy I’m thirsty.” Dajh said, running up to where Sazh was sitting. He was probably tired of all that running about. Of course, the baby chocobo was right behind him, and used Sazh’s head as a landing pad. Sazh opened up a can of juice for him, and Dajh drank it in one big gulp. With all the running and yelling, it’s no wonder he was so thirsty.
“Oh yeah, we’ve got to name this little guy don’t we?”
When they first met, the little bird had started chasing him right away. There had been no time to start thinking of names.
“Ummm... a cool name! Like someone on TV!”
He was talking about the children’s shows that Dajh couldn’t go a day without watching. The main character was a baby chocobo, who was a hero of justice. Baby chocobos were so popular these days because of this show.
“But hey, what if it’s a girl? What would you do then?”
They say that even experts can’t tell what sex a chocobo is. Chocobos are quite mysterious creatures. They can understand human speech, and they have a strong homing instinct. That’s about all anyone knew.
“Okay, then a cool, cute name!”
“Well that’s a tall order. But you have enough time to think about it. He’s not going to be running away any time soon.”
Though how much time Dajh actually had left was the problem. Sazh sank into depression. What sort of Focus could a child of six have? One who can do nothing but jump and play and scream?
“Daddy, Daddy, what’s that!?” Dajh said, pointing out the window.
“Hm? Let me see. Oh that. That’s the ruins in Bowdam. We’ll be arriving there soon.”
Dajh pressed his forehead against the window, and stared down at the ruins. Sazh thought he had already seen the ruins from the train heading to Ewleede, but maybe the view from above gave a different impression than the view from below.
“I want to go inside.”
“Inside the ruins? Too bad, you can’t. There’s no door. No one even knows if there is an inside. It’s just some strange thing from Pulse...” Then Sazh remembered. A strange thing from Pulse? What was it that Nabaat was saying? Didn’t she say something about Dajh being able to sense things from Pulse?
“It’s inside.”
“Dajh... you...”
He was too afraid to say more.
“Dajh, is there something inside there?”
Suddenly Nabaat was standing beside them. She must have been listening.
“I... don’t know. But, it’s there.”
“I see. You don’t know what it is, but you know something is there?”
Looking out the window, Dajh nodded his head.
“Thank you. You’re such a good boy.” She said, and patted him on the head. She looked at Sazh as if to say, this is your child’s power.
But he still couldn’t believe it. Those ruins looked strange. Dajh was just interested in it because of that, he just wanted to try going inside.
“We will get an investigation team on it, and search the inside of those ruins. There is a chance that in there is a Pulse...”
“Are you kidding me? There is no way that could be possible!” Sazh yelled without realizing it. Dajh jumped and looked at him. Sazh calmed himself down.
“Don’t worry, daddy was just a little surprised. Sorry I yelled, I didn’t mean to surprised you like that.”
He took hold of Dajh, and held him on his lap. He didn’t want him to look out the window anymore.

I didn’t want to believe that he could really feel things from Pulse. I think, somewhere deep inside I still thought that they had it all wrong. There’s no way Dajh could be a l’Cie. So when I saw Dajh looking at those ruins like that, I just couldn’t stand it.
I wanted to keep believing that Dajh just wanted to see the fireworks festival, that it had nothing to do with Pulse. I was sure he had just heard people talking about it on the train from Bowdam to Ewleede. Even though I never told him about it, Dajh knew that the fireworks in Bowdam were said to grant wishes.
Hey, do you remember what Dajh wished for? “I hope daddy gets happy again.” he said. I knew I couldn’t continue to look so sad after that, when I was worrying even him. So I decided that I wouldn’t ever look sad or worried in front of Dajh again. Well, I gave it my best shot didn’t I? Even after what the Lieutenant said...

It was as bright as noon. It was nearing the end of the fireworks festival, and already so many fireworks had been shot into the sky.
Everyone had probably already finished with their wishes. They had all looked up into the sky, and said their oohs and aahs. Dajh was holding Sazh’s hand. He was jumping up and down, laughing and smiling.
“So Lieutenant Nabaat. How did it go?”
Both Sazh and Nabaat were the only ones looking somewhere completely different from those around them. Nabaat had been waiting on the airship for the report from the investigation team to come in. If she was here now, that meant...
“I’ve received a communication from the investigation team.” Nabaat said, her voice low. Sazh held is breath and waited for he to continue.
“There is a Pulse fal’Cie inside the ruins.”
The sound faded from the world. The blast of the fireworks, the cheers of the people, everything was gone. The only thing left was Nabaat’s voice.
“It’s quite embarrassing. Those ruins have been here for hundreds of years, but the Sanctum was unable to do anything about them. We have a lot to thank Dajh for.”
Dajh wasn’t even aware that Nabaat was talking about him. His hands were raised to the sky, jumping, as if he thought he could touch the fireworks.
“I mean, he did suddenly say he wanted to go to Bowdam, that there was “something there”. But who would have thought...”
Who would have thought that there would be a Pulse fal’Cie in Bowdam. Inside a ruin with no entrance or exit.
“Now we know for sure. Dajh can sense things from Pulse.”
“Nevermind that, what is his Focus? Is it just for him to sense them and find them?”
Nabaat’s expression grew clouded. “We are not sure just yet if that is the case.”
“But why not? I mean he found it for you didn’t he? Why wouldn’t it be?”
“I am sorry. There is too much we do not know. But I feel that it wouldn’t be something as simple as finding the Pulse fal’Cie...” She cut off her words. It seemed she didn’t want to say more than that. If his Focus was to find the Pulse fal’Cie, now that it’s been found in the ruins Dajh would have already turned into a crystal. Which meant that finding the fal’Cie has not completed his Focus.
Did he also have to find all of the l’Cie that were in hiding? Or maybe he had to not only find them, but defeat them as well. Either way, it too much to expect of a six year old boy.
“Daddy. Hey, Daddy!” Dajh was pulling on his arm.
“Oh, sorry. What’s up?”
“Let’s go to Nautilus Park next!”
Sazh and Nabaat looked at each other. Nautilus Park was a theme park run by the Sanctum. The park was the center of Nautilus City. Did Dajh sense more things from Pulse? It was probably the Pulse l’Cie.
“Is there... something there?”
He barely managed to keep his voice from shaking. If there were Pulse l’Cie in Nautilus Park, then this time might turn Dajh into a crystal.
“Yeah! There are lots chocobos! And the fluffy things!”
Sazh felt relieved. Dajh just wanted to see chocobos and sheep. Oh yeah, they had talked about Nautilus on the train to Ewleede. He was probably just remember that.
“It seems it doesn’t have anything to do with Pulse.”
Sazh nodded slightly.
“Take me, take me!”
He was about to tell him they’d go later, but Nabaat stepped in. He thought she must be disappointed that her expectations weren’t being met, but her expression was kind.
“Please tell me if there is anywhere else you want to go, okay?”
Oh, of course. Even if this time it isn’t right, there is always the next time. That is probably what she is thinking. Or maybe she was just thinking that a child who carries the heavy burden of a l’Cie deserves to have some fun, and wants to give that to him. No, not her. Definitely not her.
“I’ll take you wherever you want to go.”
“Nautilus Park!”
“Okay, okay. Then next time we’ll all go together. I promise.”
“Okay!”
Anyone looking on would probably think this was a sweet scene. Anyone who didn’t know the truth. Sazh looked away, and saw a familiar face. That silver haired soldier. What was his name? Lieutenant Rosch, he thought.
“Lieutenant Nabaat.” His voice was hard. Sazh got a bad feeling. Nabaat stood. Thinking Rosch was there to play with him again, Dajh’s face brightened. Sazh grabbed him and held him. What they were going to talk about was probably not something a child should hear.
“The decision has been made.”
Sazh listened to them speak, his back turned, as he took Dajh away from there.

Chapter Six

The “decision” Lieutenant Rosch had been talking about was a lock down on all of Bowdam and its residents. They came the day after the fireworks festival. PSICOM works fast. But what was really fast was how quick they set up the blockades around the Bowdam Ruins. Though I only heard about it later.
It seems that the investigation team that was sent in to the ruins never came back. Not a single one of them. After the team had sent a wireless transmission that told them of the fal’Cie, they lost their position. Instead of sending in a rescue team, PSICOM blocked off the ruins. Even though they could still be alive in there, somewhere.
Well, the soldiers might be able to except it all. But civilians are couldn’t. Do you think they’d just accept it? No, of course not. I was the same. No explanations, just being told we couldn’t leave the city. Who would just sit down and take it?
Especially on that day, when it wasn’t only the residents of Bowdam. Tourists from all over Cocoon were there. On that day, after the fireworks festival, it was madness...

After the festival was over, we stayed the night in the security force garrison. Originally they were going to return to the medical center in Eden during the night, but when Dajh said “Are we going already?”, they changed plans. They thought that perhaps he was feeling something from Pulse and wanted to stay.
The investigation staff that was testing Dajh had come with them to the festival, but they wouldn’t be able to continue their tests at the garrison. Separating them into different rooms would have looked strange as well, so they were finally given permission to spend time together.
Nabaat had already asked that they continue monitoring Dajh. She said that any small thing that he might said could be an important clue. Sazh couldn’t refuse. Well, even if he had refused, they would have still set up a hidden camera or put up voice recorders. They were going to be watched no matter what. Sazh knew that quite well enough. In any case, Dajh was happy. He jumped on the bed with the baby chocobo beside him, and ran around the room until night fell.
Sazh thought Dajh would oversleep the next day, but he woke up at the same time he always did, looking sleepy. He ate his breakfast quickly, and when he saw the baby chocobo playing around, all he wanted to do was play too, his weariness forgotten.
Dajh probably wanted to come to Bowdam to get away from all those tests. Right now had didn’t seem to have any connection with Pulse, or things from Pulse. He wasn’t at all like he was when he had first said he wanted to come here to see the fireworks.
“Daddy, I wanna watch TV!”
“What? Oh right, it’s that time.”
It was only a fifteen minute children’s program, but Dajh always watched it before going to daycare. Dajh would watch it while Sazh was getting dressed, and once it was finished Dajh would turn off the TV and they’d head out the door together.
Sazh had thought that until Dajh grew too old to be watching children’s shows they would continue this everyday ritual. Once he finished work he’d go to the daycare center to pick up Dajh, and on the way home they’d talk about what to have for dinner, stopping to pick up things at the store... What had been an everyday thing now seemed like a miracle. But that miracle was gone, it’s light grown cold.
“Daddy, the TV is weird!” Dajh said unhappily. Sazh looked up, remembering where he was.
“All the channels are the same.”
“That’s... Bowdam Station.”
It showed soldiers at Bowdam Station, and the station blocked off. The voice of a female newscaster came on over the video.
“Last night a fal’Cie from Pulse was found in the ruins around Bowdam Bay. The Sanctum has made the decision to close off the city of Bowdam and it’s surrounding areas.”
The picture changed to a video of the airship force above the station. Sazh ran over to the window. He could see the military’s high speed ships take off, and soldiers running around on the grounds. The sky in the direction of the station was filled with military ships. The video narration continued.
“The Sanctum has revealed that the accident that occurred at the Ewleede Canyon energy plant was in fact destruction caused by Pulse l’Cie.”
He turned back at the word “Pulse”. There were people who were rushing the station, and the soldiers were pushing them back. They were probably tourists. We don’t even live here, they were probably saying, we just happened to be here. Why is this happening to us?
Sazh could understand their confusion. He felt it himself seven days ago.
“With the recent chain of events, the anxiety of the people in this city is rising. Some voices are saying that measures stronger than quarantine must be taken.”
He didn’t want to hear anymore. He didn’t want to see people who wore his own expression of despair. Sazh turned off the TV.
“No TV today. You’ll have to watch it tomorrow. Look, he wants to play with you.”
The baby chocobo flew out from his hair. Dajh laughed and the ran around the room together. Now he had probably forgotten all about that children’s program he had wanted to watch.
There was a knock at the door, as if someone was waiting just for that moment. They probably had been waiting. After all, this room was being monitored. When he opened the door, Nabaat was on the other side.
“Mr. Katzroy, we will be leaving here as soon as possible. Please get ready.”
“Are you sure? What about sensing things from Pulse or whatever it was...”
She glanced over Sazh’s shoulder into the room beyond. When she saw that Dajh was absorbed in playing with the baby chocobo, she said in a low voice:
“The Sanctum has decided to force all the citizens of Bowdam to leave the city.”
Which meant that they had decided to force all those who had the possibility of being from Pulse to leave the city, to be sent to Pulse. She spoke of it as though it were just the next thing to do after putting a city into quarantine.
“After it is announced we expect there to be quite an uproar.”
That was an understatement. Given how the people already felt about being blocked from leaving the city. If they were forced to go down to Pulse, to hell, it would end with civilians attacking the soldiers. It would be just a matter of time.
“Of course we must hurry to find the Pulse l’Cie, but keeping Dajh safe is important above all. Once the airship is ready to set out we’ll leave.”
Nabaat turned and walked out of the room, leaving only her words behind her.

It was only a short time later that they left the garrison. They didn’t tell them whether or not they would be returning to the medical center, they were only told to get on the airship. Dajh left their room without resisting or making a fuss.
Sazh though that he’d play around with the baby chocobo like he did before, on their trip to Bowdam, but instead he kept quiet. He sat, staring at Bowdam through the window.
“Daddy, something is flying.” Dajh whispered.
“The skies in Bowdam have been locked down by PSICOM’s air fleet, so that’s no surprising. I’m sure there’s lots of... huh?”
Looking out from the side, he saw the “something” that Dajh was pointing at. It looked like your average military high-speed ship, but it’s movements were strange.
“What are they doing?”
Then he knew why it was so strange. They were being chased by others military ships. Even being attacked by them. The other ship was trying to avoid the attacks, weaving in and out, making their flight path look strange. The ship was headed for the ruins, going straight for them.
“They’re falling!” Dajh screamed. The ship had been hit, with black smoke billowing out behind it, but still they were growing closer to the top of the ruins. Then someone jumped from the ship.
“A civilian?”
From here it looked like a young girl. She held out her hand to the ship, and yelled something. Of course, that’s why they were being chased. Some civilians had stolen the ship. Then the girl was sucked into the ruins. The ship she had been riding on disappeared from sight. What just happened?
“Dajh, did you see someone jump from that ship onto the ruins?”
Nabaat was standing behind them. Dajh nodded.
“And did you see them disappear?”
“They didn’t disappear. They’re inside.”
It seems that it wasn’t just his eyes tricking him, she really did get sucked into the ruins. But that would mean that there were people who were in the ruins, trapped by the Pulse fal’Cie.
“Good job, Dajh.” Nabaat said, and patted him on the head. What was she talking about? Sazh thought. Shouldn’t they be trying to rescue that girl?
“You... you have to rescue her!”
“No, we do not. Those ruins will be taken to Pulse, closed off as they are now. It’s going the same place as the rest of the citizens of Bowdam, so there is no problem.”
Sazh couldn’t believe what he was hearing. They were just going to send it to Pulse? Is that really what she said?
“Besides, it is highly probable that she was a Pulse l’Cie. Don’t you think so?”
Your son’s enemy, was what she was really saying. She looked a Dajh. He had already lost interest in what was outside the window and was running around with the baby chocobo. Dajh had sensed something else from Pulse, but his Focus was still not complete. Even though he had seen a girl who might be a Pulse l’Cie, he was still hadn’t turned into a crystal. Which meant that Dajh’s Focus was to find Pulse fal’Cie, or l’Cie, and defeat them.
“Dajh showed interest in the ship that was carrying the girl. So it is probably best that we send the ruins to Pulse without tampering with them.”
Sazh felt something inside him snap.
“Oh, you think it’s for the best? What the hell is wrong with you? If we send that to Pulse...”
If it was sent to Pulse then no one on Cocoon would be able to reach it. Then Dajh would never be able to complete his Focus.
“If we send it to Pulse? Then the citizens of Cocoon will be freed from the menace of Pulse.”
“You may be okay with that, but what about Dajh? You’ll just let him turn into a Cie Corpse? Then what have you been doing all these stupid tests on him for?”
Nabaat didn’t even bat an eyelash.
“Of course, we are doing this for the people of Cocoon. Are you saying anything is more important than that?”
“Wha...”
He had never been so angry, the words caught in his throat. He clenched his fists, but they shook uncontrollably.
“Do not misunderstand, Mr. Katzroy. It is my job to protect the citizens of Cocoon from the threat that Pulse represents.”
Her words were cold, like ice. A terrible smile hovered at her lips.
“It wouldn’t be good to yell too much, would it? Do think of how your son is feeling right now.”
Sazh looked around for Dajh. This wasn’t a conversation a child should be listening to. Fortunately he was absorbed in climbing over the seats, and hadn’t even noticed them. Relieved, he felt all the energy seep out of his legs. He fell into the seat behind him, and held his head in his hands. He heard her retreating footsteps, but couldn’t muster the energy to do anything about it.
There is nothing I can do, he thought. He knew it from the start. To PSICOM and the Sanctum Dajh was nothing but a tool to be used as they wished. So long as Cocoon was safe, one single child was nothing to them. Not just Nabaat, but all of PSICOM--no, all of Cocoon felt the same way.
Of course Sazh felt that so long as Dajh was safe, the rest of Cocoon could go to hell. Which meant that he was the only one who could do anything for his son. He would just have to complete Dajh’s Focus for him, with his own hands. It wouldn’t matter if it was completed or not, they still wouldn’t be able to return to the life they knew. The only thing that was waiting for him was death or something equal to it. Still, a crystal was far better than a monster.
He would have to destroy the Pulse fal’Cie. But could he do it? He was a normal man. Could a normal man destroy something as powerful as a fal’Cie? No, that wasn’t the problem. He remembered the girl screaming something, standing on the top of the ruins. It was impossible that she should have been there, she shouldn’t have been able to avoid all of those soldiers, and get to the ruins. But she did. Just as Nabaat had said, they were probably Dajh’s enemies. But they had given him hope. Even if it was something that should be impossible, he had every reason to try.
“Dajh...” He had only meant to say it in his heart, but the name escaped his lips.
“What is it Daddy?”
Dajh was on the seats behind him. He jumped on his back and looked at Sazh’s face.
“No... no it’s nothing.” His vision became blurred. He looked out the window. “Dad’s going to take a little nap, okay?”
“Okay.” Dajh said, running off. Sazh laid there, with his eyes closed, listening to the chirping of the baby chocobo, and Dajh’s happy screams.

When they returned to the medical center they were put in separate rooms. Sazh had at least wanted the baby chocobo to go with Dajh, but was denied.
“No! I want to stay with Daddy!”
Dajh held on to the hem of Sazh’s coat and wouldn’t let go. Maybe Dajh knew what he was planning. That he was going to destroy the fal’Cie in the ruins before they got a chance to send it to Pulse.
“I’m sorry Dajh, but we have tests we need to do. You’ll just have to wait a little longer. Tomorrow we’ll even let you play with your father a little while. Would that be alright?” Nabaat smiled.
Dajh looked lost. He held on tight to Sazh.
“Once you’re finished with the tests, I’ll buy you whatever you want. What would you like? A picture book? A huge chocobo toy?”
“Really?”
“Yeah, really. Whatever you want, just ask.”
“I want to go to Nautilus Park! I want to see all the chocobos!”
Again with Nautilus Park. He said that during the fireworks festival too. He must really want to go there and see all those chocobos. He had planned to have Dajh ask him for something, so he could have an excuse to leave and head towards the ruins. But Dajh wasn’t asking for things. He wanted a place, he wanted to spend time with his father. So he made a promise. What else could he do?
“Okay, after you’re finished with your tests, we’ll go to Nautilus Park together.”
The baby chocobo chirped as if telling them not to forget him.
“Of course we’ll bring the little one too.”
“Okay! You promise, right Daddy?”
“I promise.”
A promise he would never be able to keep. If Sazh defeated the fal’Cie, Dajh would become a crystal before the testing was even over. If he couldn’t defeat it... he would be a Cie Corpse.
“Just do a good job on your tests, okay?”
Dajh nodded as Sazh set him on the floor and let go of him. He looked so happy that he would get to go to Nautilus Park. He was smiling. That smile had always lifted Sazh, held him up. It was his treasure. I won’t let you become a monster, he vowed. Even if you become a crystal, I want you to keep smiling to the end...
He burned Dajh’s face into his memory, and tried to smile himself. He wondered if he was able to. He couldn’t let Dajh or Jihl know that right now he was saying goodbye.
“Alright then Dajh, will you go back to your room now? I’ll be there soon.”
“Okay. Daddy, you promise, right?” He said, and ran through the door. Just as he had been there, suddenly he was gone. Sazh clenched his teeth. This was for the best...
“Thank you for cooperating, Mr. Katzroy.”
“Uh, no that’s...”
It was as if she had already forgotten what had been said on the airship. She bowed to him slightly. She was good, he didn’t know if he would be able to go against her. But he had to find a way to outwit her. He tried his best to calm himself before he spoke.
“There is just one thing I’d like to ask of you.”
He knew he was being watched, just as Dajh was. If was going to get to Bowdam, first he would have to make an excuse to leave.
“I’d like to go to Palumpolum and buy a picture book or a toy or something, you know, for Dajh.”
There was a huge shop in Palumpolum that had nothing but books and toys for children. When he was a long distance route pilot he would often stop at that store and buy all sorts of presents for Dajh. At the time he didn’t really know what Dajh would like, so he’d just buy the first thing he’d see. It would make his wife laugh.
“Well, you know... it must be hard for a child that young to go through all those tests. I’d like to buy him something to entertain him, to make him stop thinking about it. You know, just that.”
“Yes, I’m sure that would make Dajh very happy.”
“If I left now and hurried, I could be back by late tomorrow afternoon. But if Dajh asks anything about me, you’ll not tell him where I went? I don’t want him to worry.”
“Of course, I understand.” she said, smiling. Then she said:
“Well then, why don’t we take you in one of our military airships? If you’re going to Palumpolum it would be far quicker than going by any civilian flights.”
Just as I figured, Sazh thought. They were going to keep watching him no matter what. He was glad he chose Palumpolum. If it had been a small town he wouldn’t be able to shake them, but in a big crowded city like Palumpolum it would be easy to disappear.
“That would be a big help, thanks.”
This had to work. It had to. He forced himself to smiled.

Chapter Seven

I actually had no problems getting away from my watchdogs. I had always gone to that store to buy presents for Dajh. I knew every corner. That’ll teach them to underestimate a civilian. Once I left Palumpolum, I jumped from trains to rental airbikes, never stopping. I couldn’t stop.
The most difficult part should have been trying to get into Bowdam, but it was far easier than I would have thought. PSICOM had orders to let nothing out, not even a rat. But they wouldn’t suspect anyone trying to get in.
I told them my wife and child were in the city, so I wanted to be with them. If they were going to be sent to Pulse, then they could at least be sent as a family. It was so easy, they didn’t even bother checking me. I did pretty well, don’t you think?
Well now it’s time we part ways, me and you. After all, Pulse is said to be hell. Before I get there though, I’ll have to defeat that fal’Cie. That won’t be easy. So, I’m sorry to say, I just can’t take you with me. I don’t think any soldiers will stop me from letting you out of the city. Once you’re outside of Bowdam, you can go wherever you want. We were only together a short while, but you’ve helped me out a lot. You helped out Dajh too, I think. Gave him something to be cheerful about. So, thanks.
Gwaaaah, what the hell!? What are you doing? Owowowow. Quite attacking me with your beak! What’s wrong with you!
Do you... want to come with me? So you don’t think I can handle it on my own? Alright, alright. Fine. Will complete his Focus for him, and we’ll return to him together. Okay?
Oh yeah, we never did find a name for you. Dajh was so into playing with you, he couldn’t even remember to do that. When we get back it will be the first thing we do. What was it, a cool, cute name? Yeah, we’ll give you one of those. A promise, just between us guys. Well... no one can tell what sex chocobos are, but whatever..

All the trains at Bowdam Station were blocked off, except one. The one that was left goes to Hanged Edge, at the farthest end of Cocoon. It was the train that went to Pulse, the only train that went there. The rail was old and rusted.
Everything had changed from what it was like on the news yesterday. No one was going against the soldiers. They had all given up, were in despair. Now they were all heading towards their last train ride.
He couldn’t let them know that he was there for a different reason. That he wasn’t heading towards Pulse, he was heading towards the Pulse fal’Cie. Sazh walked like the rest of them, looking down at his feet. Even so, he felt he had more hope than these others. He had a plan, he was going towards something. Even if he never saw his beloved son again...
“When we get on there, we’ll never get to come back again. You still okay with that?” He said in a quiet voice to the baby chocobo riding on his head. He felt a peck through his hair.
“Ow. Okay, I get you. We're in this together.”
Let’s go then, he whispered, heading towards the entrance of the station. To the start of a new journey, one with no return ticket.

Part IV: Search

Chapter One

Fang felt a tingling creep up the back of her neck as she walked through the crowded streets of the shopping mall in Bodhum. Was it because she was right in the middle of enemy territory? No, that didn’t seem quite right. Perhaps it was because she was being followed? No, that wasn’t right either. She had already shaken off pursuit.
There had been more soldiers after her than she would have expected, but luckily for her Euride was situated between the ocean and a range of mountains. There had been plenty of places for her to hide, and the terrain aided her in making strikes against the enemy before fading back into the wilderness.
She had gotten lucky and found an airbike that had been left unattended. It made it much easier for her to move quickly. Fang had never ridden a Cocoon vehicle, but she somehow managed to learn how to drive it by watching others.
It was easy enough to get from Euride back to Bodhum. A road stretched in-between them, and it allowed her to follow it even under the cover of night. Before she reached the city she tossed the airbike to the side of the road, and walked the rest of the way. It was morning when she returned to the temple.
But Vanille was not there. The food they had brought back to the temple lay untouched. She must not have returned to Bodhum. Or perhaps she was still hiding from the enemy.
”Don’t worry. No matter where you run to, I’ll find you...” It was a promise she had made, long ago. She had to find her as soon as possible. Vanille was probably lonely. Crying in her sleep, like always.
“That girl is always crying...” She whispered. Her voice rasped. She had forgotten she spent all night running, not being able to eat or drink. Her throat was parched.
She walked over to a square machine on the side of the street, and taking her card out, held it against the machine. Pressing buttons at random, she was rewarded as the sound of a drink-filled can fell into the little opening in the front.
Fang had already gotten used to opening this sort of can. It was a little different from the cans they had on Gran Pulse, but not too different. She hated to admit it, but once she got used to it the Cocoon cans were actually easier to open.
As she drank down the liquid, she thought of Vanille. Right now she might not be able to get any food, and was hungry. They had stolen two of these cards, and Vanille had the other one. But they had never tried to see if it would work. The only one they had been using was this one.
A bird flapped overhead, and Fang stiffened. A white bird flew passed and away. Again? Fang thought. It was that strange, human-looking bird they had seen a few days ago. Strange looking it might be, but so far it seemed to have brought her luck. They had seen it when they had gotten these cards, after all. She had seen it too, when escaping from Euride. That time she had found the airbike and managed to throw off her pursuers. If it were true, then maybe something good will happen this time. Like maybe she’ll find Vanille...
Fang looked into the crowd, hoping to see her. She looked at the entrances of all the stores, watching the people leaving.
“I guess not...” She sighed. She wasn’t at the shopping mall, but perhaps she went to the beach. There were girls there who wore similar clothing, maybe she went there so she wouldn’t stand out. Placing the empty can down on the ground beside her, she stood up and tried to get her bearings. Now where was that beach...
“Hey, you could at least pick that up.”
She ignored the voice behind her. It was better not to get involved with anyone from Cocoon. That, and she knew she had no need to fear attack even if she turned her back to them. Everything was so peaceful and safe here in Cocoon, she could hardly credit it. Even the soldiers she had seen yesterday in Euride had barely any experience with fighting. Sure they had training, but no real experience.
“Just wait a minute Miss Rude Girl...”
This time the voice came from right behind her. She hadn’t even noticed. How careless of her. She stopped, and looked at the speaker over her shoulder. She made as if to turn around, then dodged to the side into the crowd. No one would shoot at her in a large group of people like this. These people were soft.
She hadn’t seen that blue uniform in Euride, but she knew he was a soldier. He had gotten close to her without even her noticing. He was well trained, it would take skill to run from him.
Fang ran outside of the shopping mall, but that was as far as she could go. Any further would take her outside of the crowd, and that would be dangerous. Running into a narrow alleyway, she turned several corners before coming to a dead end, which was easy enough for her to leap over.
Fang ran and ran, until finally she no longer knew where she had run to. But there was no one behind her, she was no longer being followed. Fang sighed in relief. She winced, her chest hurt. She must have run farther than she had thought, she had to catch her breath before continuing on.
Then the world rocked, and she felt a blow to her back. Someone had jumped out behind her, but by the time she realized it, it was too late.
“You bastard!” She put all the strength she could into her arms to try and break free, but no... she was trapped. He had her arms pinned, she couldn’t move.
“Quiet! We aren’t your enemy.” He took his hands off her. “I’m sorry I had to do that to you. My name is Rygdea. I’m in the cavalry... er, not that you’d know anything about that.”
A kind looking, but unshaven man stood in front of her. Kind looking he may be, but he was the one who had trapped her. He was careful and efficient, she knew she wouldn’t be able to get free of him. He was probably far stronger than any of the soldiers she had met during her escape.
“There is someone I’d like you to meet. Please come with me.”
She only stood because she was already surrounded, each soldier pointing his gun straight at her. But the only one to stand within close-range fighting distance was Rygdea, all the others stood as far away from her as possible. Pathetic.
They handcuffed and blindfolded her. Rygdea put a gentle hand against her shoulder to point her the way. There was nothing else she could do but follow their orders.
“If we don’t do this we know you’d never come quietly. But it’s not too far, don’t worry.”

Chapter Two

It wasn’t long before Fang realized why they had blindfolded her. The airship they pushed her into was so narrow they wouldn’t have been able to use their guns on her. If she hadn’t been blindfolded and bound, she could have fought back and escaped.
But she wasn’t bound for long, as Rygdea had promised. They hadn’t been in the air for long when she felt the rumble of the airship landing. She felt hands on her back, directing her to move, but it wasn’t long before she had to stop again.
There was a low noise. It sounded vaguely familiar to her, and she soon realized it was the sound of doors opening and closing. All the doors at the shopping mall and energy plant had made the same sound.
A voice started speaking, but it was one she didn’t recognize. Perhaps this was the man Rygdea had wanted her to meet.
It seemed Rygdea was a “captain”. She had heard the word often during her escape. From what she had learned from other soldiers, they added these words to names depending on their rank.
The blindfold fell from her face, and Fang squinted in the bright light of the cabin. She scanned the area, finding that all the soldiers were gone. There were only two in the room besides herself: Rygdea, and one other man. He had black hair, and a cool expression on his face that showed he was no push over.
“Take off the binds.”
“Are you sure about that General Raines? This girl shouldn’t be taken lightly...”
“I don’t care.”
Just what could this man be thinking? Fang wasn’t happy about being bound like this, but she knew she would do the same if she were in their shoes. He must have some sort of plan already in place if he was going to unbind her. Their eyes met and he smiled.
“This is what you are thinking right now. You are a l’Cie of Pulse, and all of Cocoon is your enemy. But there are exceptions to anything, you know.”
Fang stood wordlessly, staring into the man’s eyes. She tried to read something of his thoughts, anything, but they were unreadable as the writing of Cocoon. His eyes were as cold and dark as midwinter, and had unknown depths.
“I am Cid Raines. I may control the Cavalry fleet, but I am not your enemy.”
Fang wasn’t stupid enough to take those words at face value. She snorted.
“Don’t be an idiot. When it comes to my enemies there are no exceptions.”
“Of course our charge is to protect the people of Cocoon. But just because that which we want to protect is different, does that really make us enemies?”
“What the hell is that supposed to mean?”
No, Fang thought, I don’t even want to understand. Raines took out a small device and placed it to his ear. It was hard for Fang to believe, since it was so small, but that machine was a wireless communicator on Cocoon.
“Ah, Lieutenant Nabaat. What’s your status?”
She wondered who he was talking to. Raines looked up at met her eyes. A woman’s voice crackled from the device. Fang looked around, startled.
“The perpetrator is still on the run. We haven’t been able to locate her.”
“It’s the same on this end. We do plan on searching from the air between Euride and Bodhum, however.”
Fang couldn’t figure out how it worked, but it seemed that with that device you could hear the voices of other people. Raines smiled faintly, perhaps finding her reaction amusing.
“We believe that she is hiding somewhere in the gorge, so before we...”
“Ah, you believe we would have a higher chance of finding her from the air? Understood. Anything else?”
“Once she is captured, she must be handed over to PSICOM headquarters immediately.”
“Is that our orders?” Raines glanced at Fang. She wondered if he was telling her that if ordered he would send her over to them.
“It is a request.”
“PSICOM’s ‘requests’ are the same as orders from the Sanctum, of course.”
It didn’t take long for Fang to figure out that the relationship between these two was not particularly friendly.
“Though I am amazed that it has been a full day since the accident, and I have yet to be told the details. Though if it involves you then it must be something very important. That, at least, is plain to see.”
“Unfortunately, I can’t answer that.” The woman replied sarcastically. “That information is classified and under control of PSICOM.”
“Oh, you’re always like this.” Raines sighed and switched off the communicator. The smile fell from his face as he looked at Fang. “And so now you know. The army of the Sanctum is not one-sided.”
“Sanctum army?”
“Yes. There are two arms to the army of Sanctum. The Wide-area Response Brigade, also known as the Cavalry--that’s us, who protect the people--and PSICOM, Sanctum’s special forces.”
“What does that matter? You’re all enemies to me.”
Raines ignored that, and continued: “The reason I ordered Rygdea to bring you here is not so that we could hand you over to PSICOM. In fact, just the opposite.”
What did it matter? Either way the armies of Cocoon wanted to capture l’Cie. Fang couldn’t understand what he was trying to say.
“We do not agree with the actions of PSICOM, and do not align ourselves with them.”
“So you think that means you aren’t my enemy? Yeah right.” It was likely that they really were against PSICOM, if that conversation they had a minute ago was any indication. But that didn’t mean they were Fang’s allies. “You just think that by capturing me, you’ll be the first one to get information on Pulse.” It was a common scenario, getting one up on your enemies to make them look bad. “But unfortunately for you, I’m a broken l’Cie.” She looked down at the mark on her arm. When she had awoken it had been burned white, as though a scorch mark left from when everything had been burned clean from her mind. “I can’t remember my Focus or my memories. I don’t have any information you could want. And...”
“And...?”
She wasn’t sure if she should tell this to the enemy.
“I’m looking for a friend. I don’t have time to help you.” Fang hadn’t been sure she should say anything, but she needed information about Vanille. She wondered what reaction the two men would make on hearing the word ‘friend’.
But they were silent, their faces told her nothing.
“I understand. It’s up to you whether you want to help us or not. But in the mean time, you’ll be staying with us.”
Of course, Fang thought. Whatever they’ve been saying, all they’ve really wanted to do was lock me up and keep an eye on me. If that’s the case, then my only choice is escape.
“Captain, take her to the residential area.”
“Understood.”
From how they spoke to one another, Fang could tell that Raines was ranked higher than Rygdea. But despite that, they seemed far closer than it would appear at first glance. She wondered if maybe they were close in age. No, she had no time or reason to be thinking about that. There were more important things to think about...
“Hey girly, don’t try to fight you’re way out of here eh?” Rygdea said, slapping her on the back. He is strong, Fang thought. “Though you’re not much of a ‘girl’ are you?” He let go of her. “But you know, if we really got into a fight one of us probably wouldn’t make it out alive. So hey, let’s be friends.”
Fang had no interest in being friends with him, but it was true that if they got into a fight there would be some serious injury. She raised both her hands up in truce.
Just beyond the door lay a narrow hall. Because the previous room had been so low and wide, Fang had thought that all of Cocoon’s buildings were built like that, but it seems that this wasn’t the case.
“What? You don’t even have windows around here?” The tight quarters made it hard for her to breathe, making her even more irritable.
“I doubt you’d find much use for windows in the middle of an airship.”
“An air... ship?”
“You’re inside The Lindblum, an airship.”
She touched the walls of the ship. If this were really a ship she should have been able to feel it’s movement. At least it was that way with ships on Gran Pulse. But she felt no rumbling beneath her fingertips. Which must mean they were docked.
“What, you didn’t know? Well we are currently in flight.”
“It’s.. it’s flying?” She couldn’t believe it. The ship wasn’t shaking or vibrating at all. No, she could feel the slightest tremble in the floor beneath her feet, but it was so faint she could hardly tell. She had been surprised at the speed which the train going from Bodhum to Euride had moved, but this ship was clearly even more powerful. Fang relaxed.
“So... this is a ship?” Fang looked down the hall stretching far behind her, and looked back to see how far it continued forward. It went farther than she could see in either direction.
“It can’t...” When she thought that this was a building, she had felt the hallway was horribly narrow and tight, and that the room she was in before had an oddly low ceiling. But if this were an airship...
“You okay?”
“Yeah, I was just thinking this is one damn big ship.”
“Really? Well the Sanctum Skyfleet’s Palamecia is even bigger.”
“I think my head hurts...” Fang could hardly imagine it. These ships were on an entirely different scale from what they had on Gran Pulse. Not just the ships, but the guns the soldiers carried were more powerful than any she had seen before.
The beasts and the birds, and more over the humans of Cocoon were very weak in comparison to Gran Pulse. Of course there were a few like Rygdea who she could see were “strong”, but most of the soldiers she ahd seen on Cocoon were weak.
But Cocoon had technology. Fang didn’t know what other sorts of technology they had, but what if all of these people could use it? They may be surrounded by a worse enemy than they had imagined.
Once they made it to the end of the hall, there was a staircase. Fang wondered just how much further they had to go, especially since they had already walked a considerable ways. How long would it take you to walk from one end to the other?
“Well you’ve sure gotten quiet. It wasn’t too long ago that you were barking like a feral dog.”
“Well I’m not a dog, don’t treat me like one. I was just thinking of a way to get out of here.”
“Well don’t do that!” Rygdea’s face grew serious. “PSICOM has set up barricades all around Bodhum. I’d like to see you try and escape from there.”
“I’m not so stupid that I’d get caught by those assholes.”
“... I don’t think you quite get it.”
“Don’t get what?”
Rygdea sighed. “You managed to get through the barricade around the plant on your own, I’ll give you that. But do you know how hard we worked to get you free?”
“Free...?”
“Well we couldn’t just capture you right in front of PSICOM, they would have told us to hand you over. You heard them right? We couldn’t let that happen, so we were busy overwriting their surveillance system and sending false info over their wireless.”
Fang didn’t really know what exactly they had done with the surveillance system and wireless, but it seems that Raines and Rygdea had helped her escape.
“I don’t get it. Why do this if we’re enemies?”
“It’s like General Raines said, it’s in our interest to help you. The enemy of our enemy is our friend.”
“The enemy of our enemy is our friend... huh.” Fang could understand that better than just saying they weren’t enemies. Even though they were enemies, joining forces under those circumstances wasn’t something completely unheard of.
“Here’s your room, girly.”
Rygdea stopped in front of several doors. Fang had no idea where they were or where they had come from. Even if she wanted to escape, she wouldn’t be able to.
“Sorry it’s so small.”
Even though it didn’t have much, just a bed and a small table, it was a real room. Fang would have no problem staying here.
“You can call me Fang.”
“Eh?”
“Stop calling me girly.”
Rygdea smiled. “I knew you didn’t like being called that, but I didn’t know what else to call you.”
“So you should have asked my name.”
“If I had asked, would you have told me?”
“No... no, probably not.” Until a little while ago, she had no intention of telling him her name. Rygdea was strong. While people might tell lies, there were no lies in strength.
“You said you were looking for your friend, right?” Rygdea asked, as if just remembering. “Are they strong like you?”
“Stronger than any soldier on Cocoon.”
“Are all women on Pulse so strong?”
She had told them that she was looking for a friend, but she hadn’t told them she was a girl. Fang narrowed her eyes.
“Don’t look at me like that. We looked at the surveillance cameras from Euride. The picture wasn’t too clear, but we could at least see that much.”
Fang breathed a sigh of relief. Vanille hadn’t been captured.
“Are you worried? Well of course you are. Doesn’t matter how strong she is, she’s still all alone.”
“And she cries all the time.”
Vanille would always cry, waking up from a bad dream, holding on to Fang and begging her not to leave her alone. She had always been like that, since they were children.
“And sometimes she laughs at the strangest things.”
When was the last time she had seen Vanille laugh? In the train to Euride? No... she had been surprised at everything, but she hadn’t laughed. Had she even laughed since they had woken up...
“Should I look for her?”
Fang wouldn’t have expected him to make such an offer. Rygdea seemed like a nice enough guy, but he was still the enemy.
“I mean right now you can’t leave here, can you? If you went out there, it would be suicide. But I understand you’re worried about her. I have friends myself.” Rygdea said with a smile, he didn’t seem as though he was lying.
“I don’t... I don’t want to owe you anything.”
“Well then, how about this: we make a deal.”
“A deal?”
“We can’t let you fall into PSICOM's hands, so I’ll search for you friend. In return, you guys cannot let yourself get captured by PSICOM.”
Cocoon’s soldiers weren’t that strong by themselves, but they had technology, and even within those soldiers there were a few strong ones like Rygdea. Surrounded by soldiers like these, there wasn’t much she could do right now.
“I... yes...” She didn’t know what Raines was planning, but she felt she could trust Rygdea. “Please.”
Once he found Vanille, Fang would return what she owed him. He could count on that.

Chapter Three

“A deal, huh? I’m too nice.” Rygdea thought to himself as he walked the road from Bodhum Station to the shopping mall quarter. They wouldn’t get anything in return for this deal.
Fang had said herself that she was a “broken l’Cie”, but even if that wasn’t the case she wouldn’t break so easily. They might not get any information on Pulse out of her, but it was true that they couldn’t let her fall into PSICOM’s hands. Searching for her friend wouldn’t be a waste of effort.
And, if they could get her to join them, she would be a nice addition to their forces. When they had brought her in Rygdea had felt her strength and skill, but what was even more surprising was when they let her use the training simulator. He had thought she might be getting bored just waiting around, and had brought her to the training room.
While it might be true that there is a world of different between a real fight and a simulated program, Fang managed to grab the high score on a machine she had never even seen before. It was no wonder she was able to escape from enemies so easily in unfamiliar territory.
She had not only strength, but luck on her side. That she got tickets to Euride with an overwritten ID card, and that she overwrote the card by accident, was nearly impossible to imagine.
And then the airbike she used after her escape from the plant. It must have been left with the engine running, because there was no way she could have found a way to turn it on and make it run without knowing what she was doing. The owner of that bike must have left it on, planning on returning immediately. In fact, PSICOM had locked down the plant shortly after the accident. The owner might not have been able to return.
Fang had said she had seen an unusual owl on Cocoon three times. An owl that had a human-like face and legs like those of a raptor. She had never seen one, other than in a book, she had said. Rygdea himself had only seen one once. That she had seen one three times in only a few days showed how luck seemed to follow her.
Fang’s friend was still running from PSICOM, and without the help of the Cavalry. Her luck must be even greater than Fang’s. Perhaps all l’Cie from Pulse had such luck.
“But where should I begin looking for her?”
The fireworks festival was in a couple of days, and Bodhum was already filled with tourists. It would waste too much time and effort to look for her in this crowd. Fang had said that she wouldn’t have gone far. Unless something had happened, she would be somewhere in Bodhum. But the problem was, Rygdea didn’t know much about the area.
Which meant, he would have no choice but to search at random. Or so he thought, when he heard a voice calling out his name. It was one of the officers from the Bodhum security force. Rygdea had spoken with her a bit the other day when he had come to investigate.
“You’re... Sergeant Farron, right?”
“Sir!” She said, saluting, a perfect textbook example. Her movements were tight and efficient. If given the chance, she could become very strong. Though he knew this already from the information he had seen on the troops, this was something he could tell just by looking at her.
“Don’t be so formal, relax already.” He said to her. That’s when he had an idea. He might not know the area, but he could ask someone who did.
“Do you know of any places where young people go to hang out? Anything is fine.”
It wasn’t widely known that their suspect was a young girl. Fang’s friend may have decided to hide herself with others her age so as not to raise suspicion.
“Does this have something to do with the accident in Euride?” Sergeant Farron’s eyes lit up. Her intuition was sharp.
“Is there a rumor going around?” Though she was trying to get information out of him, he decided to turn it back on her, hopefully to find out how the troops are feeling about the accident.
“Well, I wouldn’t say it’s a rumor.”
“Oh?”
“Our orders are to hand over the suspect. That is all. But, PSICOM is here. They arrived here just after the accident. That’s enough to raise anyone’s suspicions.” She said it casually, but was clearly waiting to see his reaction.
“Well, soldiers in the lower ranks like us can’t understand what those higher-ups think anyway.”
“Excuse me, sir, but I don’t believe Captain Rygdea of the Cavalry can be considered a part of the lower ranks.”
She could see right through him. Her eyes sharpened. The eyes of someone who knew exactly what he was about. If he tried to get any more information out of her, he would be digging his own grave.
“In any case, that’s not it. I’m just being used by a friend to find someone, that’s all.” He made a show of sighing and looking resigned. Not that he thought she’d buy it, but she was the type would was not only sharp, but would know when to leave well enough alone.
“I’m just having trouble searching for her, since I don’t know the area. But you’ve come at the perfect time to help me.”
Just as he expected, Sergeant Farron didn’t ask any more about Euride.
“If you give me her ID number, I can tell it to soldiers who are on patrol.”
“No no, there’s a reason we can’t really have this known publicly.” He explained that it was a girl who had run away from home. Sergeant Farron nodded, understanding.
“So a girl... how often has she been in Bodhum?”
“No, she doesn’t really know the area either. She’s from very far away.” He wasn’t lying, it was just farther away than Sergeant Farron could imagine.
“Anything you can tell me about her?”
“She has her hair done up in two pigtails. Apparently she laughs and cries a lot. She’s not shy at all...”
“Is this a little girl?”
“No... she’s around seventeen or eighteen...” Rygdea started to say, then burst into laughter. “You’re right, it does sound like a little girl.”
“No, I understand. I have a little sister about that age.” Sergeant Farron smiled softly when she said that. It was the same expression Fang had when talking about her friend.
“And she likes to take care of livesto--, er she likes to take care of animals. Are there any places in Bodhum where there are animals she could pet?”
“As far as I know, there are only pet shops.”
The only place in Cocoon where there were really animals you could pet was Nautilus Park, but he couldn’t imagine she would hang out there to pet sheep while she was on the run. No reason to continue this line of investigation further.
“Well it’s not a place with animals, but there is a cafe where a lot of young people go...”
“Cafe?”
“Yes, it’s close to the beach. I hear that both locals and tourists go there often. Not that I ever go there.” Her expression grew grim. It seemed she didn’t have a very good opinion of the cafe.
“Wow, you know a lot about it even though you never go there. Now that’s a good member of the security force.”
“Oh, no... it’s something that my little sister has talked about.”
“I see, well it’s definitely worth checking out.”
That would be the perfect place for her to have gone. Lots of people her age there, so she wouldn’t stand out, and since locals were there too she could become friends with one of them and have a place to stay.
“Alright, I’m going to try it. Thanks for your help.”
As always, Sergeant Farron made a perfect salute before departing.

The cafe was just as Sergeant Farron said it was. There was a good mix of both locals and tourists, and all were young. But the face he was looking for was nowhere to be seen.
“Welcome! I’m sorry, but currently our tables are all full. But if you’d like to sit at the counter...?”
Rygdea had seen the blue-haired waiter before. The other day when he was off on investigation the boy had been arrested and searched. It seemed PSICOM had noticed a package he had been protecting. But after they searched it, it turned out there was nothing important inside.
“What would you like?” A bright voice asked as he sat down at the counter. A small woman stood behind the counter, shaking up drinks. She had black hair like Fang’s, but there was a sweetness about her eyes that gave her a soft appearance.
“I am a bit hungry. You can make me anything you think is good.”
“Any foods you don’t like?”
Rygdea told her that he didn’t, and she smiled. The way she turned on the fire and handled the frying pan made it obvious she was a pro. She mixed up drinks, sliced up fruit, her hands a blur.
“Snow? Hey, is Snow here?” A boy of about sixteen or seventeen broke through the thick crowd in front of the counter. The scent of oil and grease lingered about him, perhaps he was a mechanic.
“I’ve told you not to run inside the cafe.”
“I know, I know. But Lebreau, where is Snow?”
Lebreau must have been the name of the woman behind the counter. Her and the boy almost acted like mother and son, if you ignored their ages.
“He said he had to go meet Serah. You just missed him. But never mind that Maqui, can you help me? I need you to pick up some vegetables from the back.”
The boy named Maqui looked disappointed, but sighed and turned right back around and left the way he came. Rygdea took another look around the cafe, but Fang’s friend was still no where to be seen. Or at least, there was no one who seemed to be on the run. Everyone in the room was talking and smiling, all without a care in the world.
PSICOM sure has shut up the news about the accident, Rygdea thought, even though Euride is only a stone throw away from Bodhum no one seems to be worried about what happened. Even the soldiers who were there don’t know the whole story, and only those with a good head on her shoulders like Sergeant Farron knew that PSICOM moving in meant something big. Even so, they didn’t know the truth.
“Sir? Is there someone you’re waiting for?”
Her voice brought him back to the present. The way he was looking for Fang’s friend must have made her think he was waiting for someone. He shook his head.
“I’m searching for someone. Have you seen a girl who is about seventeen or eighteen years old?”
“About three come every hour. Is there anything else you can tell me about her?”
“She wears her hair in two pigtails.” Rygdea balled his hands in two fists by his head, indicating the style.
“Is that all?”
“Well, she has bracelets on both arms. Lots of thin ones. And I believe she had on necklaces too.”
“I don’t think she came here. Is she your girlfriend? No wait, you said she was eighteen... daughter maybe?”
“Hey...”
“I’m just playing with you. But you said she was eighteen had two pigtails, and had lots of bracelets and necklaces?”
She had a good memory. It probably came from working at a cafe.
“Apparently she laughs a lot, and is always smiling. She also said she was careless, but liked to take care of others and is quite kind.”
“Hmm.... that’s not much to go on.”
“Yeah I guess.” It’s true that she probably wouldn’t break into laughter like Fang said she did at a place she had never been before. And it’s doubtful that she would be taking care of other people when she needed to be taken care of herself. He forgot to mention that she cried a lot, but that would probably help about as much as the rest of the information did.
“Well, if you see her, can you let me know? Though, I can’t let her find out about it.”
“What do you mean by that? That sounds awfully suspicious.”
“She ran away from home. It would be dangerous if she ran too far, and her parents are counting on me to find her.”
She gave him a suspicious look, but then shrugged.
“Fine then. If a girl matching that description comes, I’ll let you know.”
“Thanks, I owe you one.”
“If you could just write down where I can contact you at here... And here’s your meal.”
The plateful of food appeared before his eyes. She had been working all that time she had been talking to him. Quite impressive.
“So don’t bring attention to yourself, or we’ll smack you upside the head. A lot of us are stronger than any soldiers.” Rygdea heard a voice say. There was no way any of them were stronger than a soldier, but he didn’t want to cause any trouble. He wondered if he should carry something of Fang’s around with him. If he had something of hers with him it might be easier to get in contact with her friend. He thought about talking with Fang about it as he ate his meal.

Eating better food than he had expected to get was the best thing that came out of the whole day. After leaving the cafe, he made another turn around the shopping mall, but it was wasted effort.
“I see you couldn’t find her.” Fang said to him when he arrived back on the Lindblum. She sighed in mock frustration.
“Do you have any idea where she might be? Anywhere she could have gone?”
“Yeah, but I already looked there.”
“Of course, right...”
Fang must have been wandering around town looking for her friend when they found her. She had probably searched all the places she expected her to be and had come up with nothing. Then she was panicking so much she didn’t notice she was being followed.
“Oh hey!” Fang said, slapping her knee. “She might be in the forests or ocean or something.”
“Why would she be there?”
“For food. I mean she had a card, but I doubt she got it to work.”
Rygdea looked shocked at the idea of catching fish and trapping birds to eat.
“Is that so surprising?”
“Well, I mean going into the ocean to catch fish...”
“How can you live not knowing how to get food for yourself?”
It seemed the l’Cie of Pulse were not only lucky, but tough as well.
“She really likes cooking you know. Makes up her own meals. She’s made some pretty terrible stuff though.” Fang smiled as she remembered her friend. Rygdea thought about Sergeant Farron talking about her sister. Fang’s friend must be like a little sister to her.
“When we find her, she’ll have to treat me to some Pulse cooking. But... hold off on the salt.”
It seemed the food on Cocoon was tasteless to those from Pulse, and Fang was always dumping salt on her meals.
“I’ll tell her to make invalid food.” Fang said, grinning. Then she asked, “Why are you with a guy like Raines?”
“And why are you asking? Trying to get my secrets?”
Fang mumbled that it was partly true.
“I don’t really understand him at all. I don’t know what he’s thinking.”
“Well he’s an important man in the Sanctum. And considering how many lives he has under his charge, it would be a problem if he were that easily read.”
“Is he really all that great?”
If you can’t tell what sort of man he is just from looking at him, Rygdea thought, then maybe you need to get your eyes checked. But no, he realized, that wasn’t what she meant. She could at least tell that he was no simple man, he could see that.
“So he’s a... ‘Brigadier General’ right? And you’re a captain. What’s the difference?”
“Well a captain is just a company officer. A brigadier general is one of the lowest ranks of generals. Between the two there is one other rank of field officer. Within that there are colonels, lieutenant colonels, and lieutenant commanders. So there is quite a wide gap between his rank and mine.”
“I have no idea what you’re talking about.”
“Well, let’s just say he’s one of the higher-ups.”
Fang made a face. Rygdea thought it was so hilarious, he decided to keep pushing it.
“And after those three ranks there are military officers, and even further below them there are non-commissioned officers. Sergeant Majors, sergeants and corporals...”
“Enough! Enough already. You’re making my head hurt.” Fang said while holding her head and sighing. “The army on Cocoon is complicated. Do you guys have fun making all those ranks?”
“Well, I wouldn’t exactly say it’s fun...”
Fang had never been persuaded to talk more about Pulse, but he now knew they didn’t have an army.
“Well it’s true that the strict rules about ranks are kind of a pain.”
Rygdea himself hated the stiff rules of the army, and had once tried to quit. He had joined the military academy because he wanted to fly an airship. After graduation, he had entered into the army, but not because he wanted to become a soldier. If it weren’t for his wanting to fly an airship, he would have had nothing to do with it.
It wasn’t too long after that when Raines invited him to join the Cavalry. Though he wasn’t too much older than himself, he had already been promoted to the rank of brigadier general. For a failed soldier like himself, he thought he wouldn’t have much in common with him, and had only half listened to his request.
But eventually their talks became serious, and he could no longer ignore him. Their ideals matched, and he liked how Raines didn’t treat those ideals as just an abstract theory. Rygdea thought that so long as it was under this man, he would have a reason to stay in the army...
“Even though you think it’s a pain, you still stay under Raines? Did something about him appeal to you?”
There wasn’t any deep meaning behind Fang’s question, but it would be dangerous for him to answer it. Answering it would expose too much of their hand.
“Sorry, but I’m not a man who relies on his feelings.”
“Then what do you rely on?”
“I guess... whether something makes sense or not.”
“So it makes sense for you to work under Raines then?”
“Oh, and also...” It wouldn’t hurt to show just a card or two. “I always bet on the one who looks likeliest to win. I don’t fight if I don’t think I’m going to win.”
“I see...” Fang said, with an odd look in her eyes.
“What?”
“It’s just strange. I would have thought you’d be someone who relies more on their feelings.”
“I think you’ve overestimated me.”
“I’m not. I thought you were some idiot who lets his feelings get the best of him.”
“Well, I’m glad we’ve cleared up that misunderstanding.” Rygdea said as he exited the room. He couldn’t let himself get caught in Fang’s traps.
Just a moment ago there had been an announcement from PSICOM. They were taking down their blockade around Euride and letting tourists back into the plant. Too many things were happening at once. He had to find Fang’s friend soon, before she fell into PSICOM’s hands.
He hurried to the bridge.

Chapter Four

Fang had never thought that something as small as a no windows could make someone so nervous, and yet she found herself pacing back and forth in the tiny room.
But that’s not why she felt so nervous. It had been two days since she had arrived here, and four since Euride. But still there was no sign of Vanille. Today Rygdea had gone into Bodhum to search for her, but it just served to make Fang more nervous. Neither Rygdea nor Raines, nor anyone but her knew how little time Vanille had left. While she was here doing nothing, Vanille’s mark was evolving. She had to regain her memories and complete their Focus before it was too late.
She didn’t want to get captured by the army, so she had agreed to stay on the Lindblum. But this was wasting time she didn’t have. It might be dangerous out there, or foolish to go out among all those soldiers, but it was better than waiting here doing nothing. Fang opened the door slowly, and peeked out into the corridor.
There weren’t many people in the hallway during this time of day. Most of the soldiers were at their posts, the rest were sleeping. Yesterday she had been bored, and left her room, but she soon got lost. She had thought to find someone and ask them where her room was, but no one was to be found. After an hour of wandering throughout the ship, she finally found her way back to her room.
No one was in the corridor, just as she had thought. Fang ran. She planned to find the small ship they had brought her here in, and escape with it. Though she didn’t know how to use it, she hoped that it would be the same as the airbike. All she had to do was get on it, and it would work out somehow.
But, no matter where she ran to, the ship was no where to be found. Every direction she went in was a dead end.
If she had known this would happen, she would have searched more around the ship the day before. She could have told someone she was bored, and had them show her around. Except for Rygdea, everyone else thought that she was only a guest of Raines’. If she had asked they would probably would have agreed.
“Failed again...” Another dead end. Fang sighed at the cold metal wall in front of her.
“Failed at what?” A cold voice said behind her. Raines. “It would be a bit of a problem for you to go wandering about you see, so we put up barriers. All the doors near the catapult area you need to unlock to get through.”
They knew what she had been planning, Fang thought as she bit her lip and glared at Raines.
“Army planes and ships wouldn’t be as easy to use as as a civilian airbike. You couldn’t just get on one and hope for the best. Even as a l’Cie, there wouldn’t be much left of you at that speed.”
“I see.” Fang quickly glanced around the area. No one was there. If he was the only one here, surely there was something she could do...? Even if she couldn’t defeat him, perhaps there was a way to neutralize him.
“There is something I want to show you... no, want you to listen to. If you want to fight, go ahead, but we can do it afterward.”
“Sure, you just want to buy time until your men arrive. Like I’d believe that?”
Raines burst into laughter, shaking his head. He grabbed his sword, and held it out to her.
“I’ll give you this. If any of my men arrive you can kill me, take me hostage, whatever you like.”
“What...” Fang said, taken aback by the sword he offered. ”Are you stupid!?”
“Oh yes, most likely.” Raines said calmly, turning back around and motioning for her to follow him. The will to fight left her. Gripping the sword tightly, she followed after him.

It was the same room from two days ago, when they had taken her blindfold off after departing the smaller ship. That room. But, perhaps because she had grown used to living on the ship, the lowness of the ceiling no longer seemed strange to her.
“So? What do you want me to listen to?”
Sitting in a chair, Fang fiddled with the sword. She had no intentions of stabbing him in the back, but she wasn’t about to let go of her only weapon. If he did anything funny, she would use it on him.
Raines switched on the device that sat on his desk, explaining nothing of his actions. A loud crackle sounded from the machine before voices filled the room.
“Don’t you think it was a little too early to take down the barricade around Euride?”
“But if we held it too long, the citizens would begin to worry. If that happened then there will have been no reason to have hidden the existence of the l’Cie.”
Two men spoke, one young and one old. No... the one was probably not that young, just younger than the other one.
“What... is this?” Fang said. Raines put his finger to his lips and motioned for her to listen. The younger man continued.
“We could at least continue to investigate until the l’Cie is captured...”
“Already rumors are circulating that what happened at Euride was no mere accident. If we kept up the barricade and investigation, those rumors would only grow.”
The voice of a woman interrupted him. It was the same woman who Raines talked with two days ago.
“If it’s information you’re worried about, there is a way we could manipulate it.”
“And by that, you mean people will only listen to what they want to hear? What foolish people.”
Just who was this old man? She could figure out that he was someone with a high rank, but just who did he think he was, looking down on people like that?
“That is the representative of the Sanctum, Galenth Dysley. The other two are lieutenants Rosch and Nabaat of PSICOM.”
Fang remembered, that woman’s name was Nabaat.
“But I just received a reprimand from fal’Cie Eden. They have said to not hide the truth from the people. It seems the fal’Cie was displeased with what I was doing, even though it was for the sake of the people.”
“Fal’Cie Eden said...?”
“Yes, they said to lift the barricade, and to cease the investigation. They wish for the lives of the people to return to normal.”
“That’s madness! There are escaped l’Cie out there, who we haven’t even found a trace of let alone caught. If we leave them be they could go and destroy something else!”
“I agree, but I am nothing but a spokesperson for the fal’Cie. I cannot go against their commands.”
A blip sounded, and the conversation cut off as suddenly as it had begun.
“Our inside man was recording it.”
That explained why the sound had been so odd. A hidden mic. Even so, though he had said they were opposing factions, she hadn’t thought he would go so far as to record their conversations. It seemed the rivalry between PSICOM and Raines’ Cavalry went deeper than she imagined.
“This is the real Cocoon, where the primarch of Sanctum thinks of the people as nothing but sheep.”
“Primarch? Was that the old man? Is he that important?”
Raines nodded as if the thought pained him. “The person with the most power in Cocoon does only what the fal’Cie commands. As long as Cocoon remains under the rule of the Sanctum they are nothing but the livestock of the fal’Cie.”
“So why have me listen to this? Do you want me to say, ‘oh, I’m sorry’?”
He ignored her sarcastic comment, and continued: “You say you have forgotten, but there can be only one Focus for a l’Cie of Pulse to complete on Cocoon: defeating the Cocoon fal’Cie.”
“It could also be the destruction of all Cocoon.”
“Do you think so? If that were the case, what would be the point of you waking up within Cocoon itself?”
It was true, she had thought it strange that they had been brought up here. And with fal’Cie Anima. It had made her think that perhaps her Focus wasn’t to destroy Cocoon itself, but to destroy it’s core.
“You see it all fits if you think of it that way. Which must mean you have the power to destroy fal’Cie. That is a power we want for ourselves.”
The power to destroy fal’Cie? Did he mean he wanted the power to destroy the Cocoon fal’Cie?
“Please, I want to ask you to lend us that power.”
“You want to destroy the Cocoon fal’Cie? Aren’t you a soldier of Cocoon?”
“I don’t want to stop at just fal’Cie Eden, I want to destroy that puppet government as well.”
Fang had thought he just had a rivalry going with PSICOM or Nabaat, but it seemed it went much further than that. He was against not only PSICOM, but the Sanctum.
“But we’re your enemy.”
“Both of us are enemies of the Cocoon fal’Cie. Enemies we might have been originally, I think we will be able to form an alliance under these circumstances.”
Raines’ eyes were serious. He wasn’t the kind of person who would say such things jokingly.
“Are you okay with that? If you borrow our power, you’ll betray Cocoon.”
“I’ll do anything to achieve my goal.”
Now she understood. The reason had worked so hard to help his enemies, was so that he could go up against someone even more powerful.
“I said I was searching for my friend. I’ll only make a decision after we’ve found her.”
“I understand. We’ll do anything we can to help find her. I just don’t want you to make any rash actions.”
“You want me to sit still and be a good girl? For how long?” Now that she knew what his aim was, now that she understood him, she was willing to listen.
“As Dysley said, they’ve lifted the barricade and stop the investigation. PSICOM will remain in the city for a few days, but security won’t be so tight.” He held up three fingers. “Just wait three more days.”
“What happens in three days?”
He told her about the fireworks festival. That’s right, Fang thought, they had heard talk of it in the city. It was a huge festival where people from all over Cocoon came to see the fireworks.
“On the day of the festival, the security force will be policing the grounds. PSICOM will also be there, but unable to move against you. You will be able to mix in with the tourists and not stand out as much.”
Vanille would probably still be okay in three days, Fang though, nodding.
“I’ll stay here until the festival. Just one thing...”
“One thing?”
“I still haven’t decided whether or not I’m going to help you.”
If their Focus was to destroy Cocoon’s fal’Cie, then it would be helpful for them to join forces with Raines. If not, it would only waste precious time. While Vanille’s mark was still alive, every second counted. They couldn’t give those seconds to the enemy. Until her memory returned, she couldn’t make a decision.
“That’s fine. I’ll wait until you’ve met up with your friend, and then you can give me your answer.”
Even if they found Vanille, she wouldn’t be able to give him an answer unless her memories returned. But she wasn’t about to tell Raines that.

Chapter Five

The search for Vanille continued, but Rygdea came up empty handed. Before Fang realized, the next two days had passed, and the festival was about to begin.
She still had problems with her memory. She had tried to recall things about her childhood, or the names of people she knew... but her mind remained as blank as ever.
As promised, Raines let her go to the surface. Fang was given a small wireless device so that they would be able to contact her at a moments notice. They also gave her a ‘transfer’ device that would allow her to gain access to her weapon quickly.
Thanks, Fang thought. Even though neither of them really gained anything from their ‘deal’, she still felt she owed something to Rygdea.
The temple was the first place she visited. Rygdea hadn’t said anything about the temple. That probably meant neither he, nor anyone else knew you could get into it. As they had searched everywhere else without finding Vanille, it was likely that she had hidden there.
Only a few days had passed since they had left the temple, but the inside of the temple felt comforting and familiar. In all of this strange world it was her last connection to home.
Looking around Fang saw that the priest’s clothes they had slept on were thrown haphazardly on the floor. Vanille had already been here, but now there was no sign of her. They may have just missed each other.
She spotted Vanille’s weapon. It worried Fang that Vanille was walking around unarmed. She must have left it so as not to attract attention to herself. Unfortunately, unlike when they first woke up, the city was dangerous now, with soldiers everywhere.
Fang circled around once more, just in case, before going back outside. Just in case Vanille returned here, she gathered up the clothes on the floor and folded them properly as a sign that Fang had returned.
If only fal’Cie Anima would tell her something. Whether or not Vanille had returned here, or where she had gone. That old man had said the fal’Cie had been ‘angry’ with him. It was possible that Cocoon fal’Cie had a way to communicate with people. Such a thing would never happen with Gran Pulse fal’Cie.
“Though I bet it would be pretty annoying if they did talk.” She thought aloud. They would probably just make orders and ignored what anyone else had to say. That’s how fal’Cie were.
“In the end, you can only count on yourself.” She mused.
Fang walked along the beach where they had fished, and into the forest they had planned to hunt. When she returned to the city, it was already evening. Fang poked around the field where they had stolen vegetables, but Vanille was not there either.
“And there still isn’t anyone looking after this place.” Fang looked at the fenceless, netless field and laughed. Though, and this was probably only because she had been here too long, even this field seemed beautiful to her now. She crouched down and put her hands in the dirt. Vanille had might have come here and done the same. She knew she had.
“But I can’t wait here for her...” Fang clapped her hands together to get rid of the dirt, and stood up. Then she noticed something had fallen on the ground. It was the wireless device. She had forgotten about it completely.
When she picked it up, she noticed a light blinking on and off. It seemed someone had tried to contact her.
“Now how did this work again...” She fiddled around with it like she had the airbike, trying to get it to work, when suddenly it connected. It seemed she was good with this sort of thing.
“Where have you been!?” Rygdea yelled when she held it to her ear. “Why did you keep ignoring me?”
“Sorry, I forgot I had this thing.”
“I can’t believe this...” She heard him sigh.
“Hey, I’m not used to crap like this.”
“Well whatever. I needed to tell you that PSICOM is in the Vestige.”
“Vestige?” Then she remembered: they called the temple the ‘Bodhum Vestige’.
“It seems they’re conducting an investigation.”
“But why?” It was difficult to keep her voice from shaking. “What are they looking for?”
“I don’t know the details. We only received the communication. But I do know they’re using military monsters. Not only the Tsevelk they use for searches, but the Gebalt they use for hunting.”
Fang didn’t know the difference between these monsters, but she could tell from the way Rygdea talked about them that this wasn’t normal.
“They’ve even deployed armored soldiers. Don’t go near them. They aren’t the sort of enemy you can take down by yourself.”
When Fang had returned to the temple she had seen no sign of soldiers or anyone else. Maybe she had just missed them.
“In any case, did you find her?”
“If I had, I would have already returned.”
“I see. Well anyway, it would probably be best if you hid yourself in the crowd so they can’t find you. Oh, wait a moment...”
His voice cut off. He must have received another call. But he didn’t leave her waiting long.
“Don’t go near the security force’s base.” He said when he came back on the line. “We just received video from the security system. There is a company of airships headed this way with all speed, this is no simple investigation.”
I’ll be careful, Fang replied, switching off the wireless device and running towards the temple. She trusted Rygdea, but if Vanille returned there she would be in trouble.
But once she got within sight of the temple, she saw that Rygdea had been right. The temple was surrounded by army vehicles. It was as though the outside of the temple was swarming with insects. As much as she hated to admit it, there was no way she would have a chance against that. She could forget about helping Vanille, she wouldn’t even be able to enter the temple.
This might not even be the first time they had been to the temple. Was it possible that they had come without Rygdea and his crew realizing it? That might explain why Vanille hadn’t been in the temple. She saw the soldiers and ran, leaving her weapon behind. That must be it, Fang said to herself, which means Vanille isn’t in there. I’ll just have to believe that for now, and search somewhere else...
It was growing dark. Soon it would be too dark to search for her. Fang walked quickly to the shopping mall.

“It’s not really dark at all.”
Both the shopping mall and the beach were as light as day, and as filled with people. The fireworks bursting in the sky lit up the whole city.
Sparks exploded in the sky, booming, and lighting up the faces around her. Fang supposed having the light would help her search for Vanille, if she were there. But she wasn’t.
Fang had walked to every crack and corner of the shopping mall. She went to the vending machine where she first bought drinks for them with her card, and to the grocery store where they were given a map, to everywhere the two of them had gone together. But still, no Vanille.
There were too many people. When they come here just after waking up, she couldn’t figure out where all these people had come from. But tonight the mall was even more crowded than before. It was useful for when you wanted to hide, but impossible to find someone in.
Tired of walking, Fang went to rest in the cafe on the beach. She realized this was the same cafe Rygdea had talked about when she saw the woman mixing drinks behind the counter. He had said she was good.
“Welcome! Bar stool okay for you?” She smiled. Yes, he had mentioned how friendly she was. Fang nodded, relaxing. She was even more tired than she had thought. She hadn’t rested since noon, so this was no surprise.
“What’ll it be?”
“A drink... something very sweet.”
She nodded and grabbed a glass.
“You look pretty tired.”
“Yeah, I guess.”
“Did you go shopping? Find anything good?”
Oddly enough, it didn’t feel strange to have this woman asking her questions. Maybe it was because she was so close in age to Vanille. Fang thought of Vanille’s smile.
“Actually I’m looking for someone.”
“Oh, did they get lost? It is the fireworks festival, stuff like that happens. Your friend?”
“Yeah.”
“What’s she like?”
Fang was about to answer, when the woman called out to someone behind her.
“You’re late. She said she’d be waiting at the usual place.”
The man she talked to was large and well built. Fang wondered if he was a regular here. He turned around and left quickly, so she didn’t get a good look at his face, only the impression of the frayed sleeves of his long coat and the thick leather gloves he wore remained in her mind. It made him seem hot and sweaty rather than tough.
“I’m sorry for interrupting you. What were you going to say?” She placed the drink in front of her. Fang took a swig, and it was just as sweet as she had hoped. The cool liquid sliding down her throat felt good. All the drinks she’d had in Cocoon were too watery for her taste, but this one was good even if a bit watery. As Rygdea had said, this must be a good restaurant by Cocoon’s standards.
Fang grabbed some fruit slices that had been placed on the counter and took a bite. Tasteless.
“So, this girl you’re looking for. Can you describe her?”
“I would say she’s about as old as... no, probably a bit younger than you are. She’s a scaredy-cat, but curious about everything. She’s careless and naive, but kind to everyone and she laughs a lot...”
“Is she cute?”
“Yeah, but a crybaby.” The woman was a good listener, so Fang continued. “When she’s lonely or worried, she always cries. But if I pat her on the head she’ll forget it all in an instant. She’s just like that...”
“I see... well, I hope you can find her soon so you can pat her on the head.”
“Yeah...” Fang said, nodding. Vanille wasn’t the only one feeling lonely and worried, she thought, surprising herself.
“Have you wished on the fireworks yet?”
“Wish?”
“You don’t know? There is a legend that Bodhum’s fireworks can grant wishes.”
“I... heard that story, but...” She had already heard about it several times.
“But?”
Fang didn’t know whether Cocoon’s fireworks would want to grant her wishes.
“No, never mind.”
“Well if you haven’t wished for anything yet, why not wish that you’ll find her? Or maybe that she isn’t crying?”
Fang agreed, and stood up. She had stayed here longer than she had planned.
“If you still haven’t found her, come around. I’ll tell you if we’ve seen anyone like her.”
“Yeah, thanks.”
After paying with her card, Fang went outside. It had been crowded inside the cafe, but the outside was even worse.
“It’s like looking for a grain of sand in the desert...” She sighed and looked up at the sky. Or perhaps it was like trying to hold the sparks that lit up the sky in her hands. She touched her fingers together. On Gran Pulse this was a prayer, but people on Cocoon would have no idea what she was doing. Was Vanille looking up at this sky?
As she thought that, the wireless device began vibrating. It was Rygdea. She hoped he was calling to tell her they had found her, but no, his voice was urgent.
“Where are you?”
“I’m in front of the cafe you talked about.”
“Alright. Return to the meeting point. We’ll pick you up there.”
They had only planned to have her return to the Lindblum if they found Vanille or when the fireworks festival had ended. But from the tone of his voice she could tell he did not have good news.
“What happened?”
“Something terrible. We’ll tell you more about it when you’ve returned.”
Fang said she understood, and switched off the device. She had a bad feeling about this.

Chapter Six

Intercepting the information wasn’t in their original plan. It wasn’t scrambled or coded, and the first person to hear it was one of the lowest ranking radio communications operators. He thought it was a prank at first. If Rygdea hadn’t passed by at the time he wouldn’t have saved it much less reported it.
“A Pulse fal’Cie has been found in the Vestige.”
It had cut off there. If Rygdea hadn’t known that PSICOM was investigating the Vestige he would have thought it a prank himself.
They were able to figure out the truth of it pretty quickly, because PSICOM soon sealed off the Vestige. After they had received the video communication, they had learned that most of PSICOM was heading towards Bodhum. They also received the order to pull out immediately. That’s why they had Fang return to the ship. Though she was probably still searching for her friend, they didn’t have much of a choice. That’s how fast PSICOM worked. Not only were the Cavalry ordered to pull out, but Bodhum’s own security force were as well. And during the middle of the fireworks festival.
“Just what are they thinking?”
“They’re probably hoping to stall for time before the info gets leaked.”
“So they’ve really found a Pulse fal’Cie?”
It was probably a shock to even the highest ranking PSICOM officials. It was likely that the soldiers who found the fal’Cie had panicked and forgotten to scramble the message. They had put it on a frequency that even civilians had access to. Other people had probably already intercepted the transmission. And like with the incident in Euride, a gag order would just have the opposite affect.
“Once they’ve finished barricading the city, they’ll reveal the existence of the Pulse fal’Cie.”
“Do you think the people will panic?”
“At least within the city.” Raines nodded. That would be the reason for the barricade. Even if there were panic in Bodhum, it wouldn’t spread to any other area. Sealing off both the people and the information would allow people outside of Bodhum to remain detached from the situation. People don’t care about others when it doesn’t directly relate to themselves. The people outside of Bodhum would soon lose interest.
“I still can’t believe there was something like that hiding in the Vestige.”
That would be why Fang insisted on staying within Bodhum. Even when they suggested that her friend might have run somewhere else, Fang had simply answered that it wasn’t possible. While that wasn’t exactly strange, now it all made sense if a Pulse fal’Cie was close by. Both Fang and her friend were l’Cie. They couldn’t leave their fal’Cie behind just because they were being chased.
“If only we could have found her friend before they discovered that thing...”
“Unfortunately I believe we’ll have to give up on that. We can’t even get close to it much less search it.”
Even if they managed to break through the barrier, they wouldn’t be able to get out again. It had been hard enough helping Fang to escape from Euride, and the barricade this time would be far stronger.
“What the hell is going to happen now...” As Rygdea said those words, Raines picked up his wireless transceiver.
“Is it...?” He didn’t even have to ask, he could tell by the expression on Raines’ face. It was a call from their inside man. It had only been a few days before that Raines had gotten a man in PSICOM on their side. That was how they were able to react so quickly and rescue Fang.
“Sorry, could you go outside for a moment?”
Rygdea nodded silently, and stood. They had an agreement that the only one to know the man’s identity would be Raines. Since the information he gave them was so good, Rygdea figured it was someone high up.
Rygdea turned back for a moment, and saw the look on Raines’ face when he answered the call. He always looked somewhat strange. Rygdea didn’t know what it was, he just knew he looked different. Maybe it was because he had to put in so much effort to talk to the man. Rygdea supposed he was a man worth the price. No, he wasn’t really sure it was even a man at all.
“Alright then, time to pick up Fang.”
It wasn’t a job he was looking forward to. He would have to tell her that she had to give up looking for her friend. The image of her face flashed in his mind.
“She’ll just say we’re enemies again...” He had thought that they would be able to work together. They had a common enemy and cause, and he thought they would fight together. But now...
He felt unusually depressed.

Chapter Seven

“What did you say!?” Fang made a grab for Raines’ shoulder, but Rygdea stopped her. She was so angry she didn’t even notice.
“We’ve been ordered to leave Bodhum. We won’t be able to stay in this airspace any longer.”
“You...!” They tried to apologize, but the words flew passed her. “Let me off this ship! Let me off now!”
Searching for Vanille would be hard, she knew. That was why she had stayed on the ship like a good girl. She had even been grateful to them. But now this...?
“Calm down!”
“Calm down? Calm down!?” She tried to push him off her, but Rygdea didn’t movie an inch.
“PSICOM’s forces are arriving. I’m sorry, but all their weaponry is made specifically to go against people and creatures from Pulse. It would be suicide.”
“Do you think I care!?”
“Do you want to die!?”
“Of course!” It would be better to die than to let Vanille become a Cieth, to abandon her.
“We haven’t lost all hope.” Rygdea said quietly. The argument died on her lips. He seemed uncomfortable, and his grip on her relaxed.
“What!? But you just said...”
“I said we would have to leave the area, but I didn’t say we would stop searching.”
“It’s the same thing!”
“You just want to find your friend, right? Then there shouldn’t be a problem if you meet up with her somewhere outside of Bodhum.” Raines said.
Fang looked over at Rygdea, confused, but Rygdea himself was giving Raines a puzzled look.
“Sir, what do you...” Rygdea started to say, but closed his mouth. Fang wondered if he understood what Raines meant.
“The Sanctum has made the decision to Purge everyone in Bodhum to Pulse. Not only residents of Bodhum, but every single person currently in the area.”
The announcement would be tomorrow, he continued, and they would began to move people out on the day after that.
“Surely not...” Rygdea whispered, his voice hoarse. It seemed the truth was far worse than he had imagined.
“They’ll be brought to Hanged Edge by train, and then they’ll be sent to Pulse.”
It was the borderlands of Cocoon, Rygdea explained. No one but monsters lived there. In fact it was forbidden for citizens of Cocoon to enter.
“If your friend is in Bodhum, she’ll be sent there on the Purge train. We currently can’t go anywhere near Bodhum because of PSICOM, but what about if we found her in Hanged Edge? And I’ve heard that the Vestige containing the fal’Cie will be moved there, so I’d assume all of their efforts will go towards guarding that.”
“You’re saying we should pick Fang’s friend up off a Purge train? Sir, that’s...”
“Stupid, you think? However...” He looked straight at Fang. “Even if we stop searching now, you will still be surrounded by our enemies. Right?”
“Except you’re still an enemy.”
“I thought I already explained this. We want the power to take down the fal’Cie... the Sanctum.”
“Yeah, I heard. Do you think I care about your power struggles?”
“This isn’t a power struggle... that’s not what I want.”
“Then what is it you want?”
“To not be kept as sheep. Not just for myself, but for all the people of Cocoon.”
Fang thought she saw something deep within his eyes. It was something that she had seen somewhere before.
“We’re humans. We have our own wills, our own feelings, our own ideals... to be human is to rule over your own heart. We aren’t just tools of the fal’Cie.”
Then she remembered, where she had seen that look before. It had been in the eyes of those people who had their homes destroyed by the Cocoon fal’Cie. The color of pain and despair. Fang’s eyes may have looked the same, even now. That was why she had no regrets in becoming a l’Cie.
“We will use all of our power to find your friend. That I promise you.”
“But sir...” Rygdea tried to cut in, but Raines stopped him with his hand.
“This is just another part of our work. Because these people had the slightest brush with Pulse, their lives are being destroyed. We cannot just ignore it.”
“Well... only because you insist. Even though I think this plan is the stupidest among stupid plans. But I’m only going along with it because it’s not impossible”
Rygdea always spoke lightly, but Fang saw that he was serious. They would be saving Vanille from a train guarded by members of PSICOM who outnumbered them in both soldiers and weapons. It wouldn’t be easy, and might mean the Cavalry would have to make sacrifices.
“Then I owe you...” Fang closed her eyes for a moment and prayed. Prayed that their Focus would be to destroy the Cocoon fal’Cie, that they would be able to fight together, that there would be no mistake in making that decision. “Then when we meet up with my friend... with Vanille, we will help you. We will use all of our power to crush the Cocoon fal’Cie.”
Raines smiled slightly. She still couldn’t tell what he was thinking, but she decided that was okay. As long as they were fighting together, that would be enough.

The Lindblum landed on the surface of Lake Bilge on the day the Purge train left Bodhum. It was hard to hide a large airship in the environs around Hanged Edge, so they decided to land here and use smaller vehicles to get closer to the train. That was the plan.
“Just a little longer...” Fang whispered, glancing down at the water of Lake Bilge spreading out beneath her. She was riding in one of the smaller vehicles towards Hanged Edge.
“Yep, just one more hour and the Purge train will arrive. Then we’ll all have a big happy reunion.” Rygdea joked. Then, just out the window, Fang saw a white bird.
“What’s up?”
“That bird...” She pointed, but the bird was already moving off into the distance. It’s white wings disappeared into the clouds. Fang remembered that she had seen it when Rygdea had captured her. She had thought she would be held captive, but because they had taken her she had managed to remain safe and was now going to rescue Vanille. This really was a bird of luck.
It would be okay this time. She had even prayed to those legendary fireworks or whatever they were. They would find Vanille... they had to.
“Nah, it’s nothing.” Fang smiled, and turned her eyes forward. Hanged Edge was close now.

Part V: Friends

Chapter One

Calls in the evening always unpleasant things. Always, without exception.
Having only lived for fourteen years, it was probably a little early to be deciding that something had no exceptions at all. But it’s true today, Hope thought, looking at his mother’s back.
“No, no it’s alright. Don’t worry about it. We’re having fun just the two of us. Bowdam is a nice place. We’ve had no problems with the hotel, and the ocean is beautiful.”
It was his father on the phone. Hope knew it the moment the phone rang. And he could guess why his father was calling. After all, it was evening. He could see from the window beyond his mother’s shoulder that the day was fading.
“I... I see. I understand. That’s too bad...”
Bingo, Hope thought. He could tell from the way his mother’s voice sank that he was right. They called him in to work, he was too busy, he wouldn’t be able to leave tomorrow. That’s probably what he was saying.
This was supposed to be a vacation for the three of them. Ten days at a beach resort, staying in a condo. His mother had planned it half a year in advance. Just to have fun and relax, not to see anything in particular. Or that’s what she said. Let’s have fun, just the three of us. It’s been such a long time.
But he knew the real meaning behind his mother’s words. With her husband being so busy, and her son being at that difficult age, a “teenager”, they were growing farther and farther apart. She didn’t know what to do. So she probably thought that if they were somewhere different, somewhere that wasn’t at home, that they would finally have time to talk. Or at least, that’s what most people would think.
Hope hadn’t been looking forward to the vacation. He didn’t know what he’d have to say to his father, seeing each other for ten whole days. He had gotten irritated just thinking about it. So he had felt relieved when he heard his father had go on a business trip. He said he would meet up with them later, but Hope didn’t believe him. Probably at the last minute there would be a meeting he had to go to, he’d say someone important from Sanctum would be there, making excuses. It was always like that. No matter how small the promise, his father would always throw it away for his work.
“It’s okay, don’t worry about it. We don’t even have time to get bored there is so much to do.”
His mother forced her voice into a happier tone. Like always. He wanted to tell her that she didn’t have to try so hard to be happy. Whenever his father would break his promises, she never blamed him for it. She always made up reasons and excuses. Your father’s work is hard, she would say. He has a lot of responsibility. Important people in the Sanctum trust him. He’s working hard for everyone. It was so sad how she would never say a word against him. But no matter how much effort she would put into defending him, his father never had a word of thanks for her.
My father doesn’t care, Hope thought. About how nice she is to him... or about me.
He couldn’t be sure whether his mother really didn’t realize this, or if she was just pretending that she didn’t. It didn’t matter either way. My father is the one who’s wrong, Hope said to himself.
“Tomorrow? We’re going to Ewleede like we planned. Yes, they’ve already finished cleaning up after that accident.”
There had been a huge accident at the energy plant in Ewleede Canyon three days ago. Everything had been shut down in the uproar, and tours of the plant had been put on hold until today. They had just finished rebuilding, and they had let us know just a moment ago that they would be letting in visitors tomorrow.
“Everything will be fine. I mean the fal’Cie decided that it was safe, that should be good enough for taking a field trip right? You’re such a worrier.”
Like he would worry, Hope thought. Of course, he didn’t say so aloud. He knew that it would just make his mother sad. His head knew it, but his heart...
“He's not coming is he? Of course.” The harsh words slipped out of his mouth just as she hung up the phone.
“There’s nothing he can do about it. There was that accident in Ewleede you know, everyone inside Sanctum was in a panic about it, and that affected your father’s job too. Oh! But he said he’d be here in time for the fireworks festival.”
Again with the promises he’ll never keep. He should just not make them to begin with.
“Whatever, let’s not talk about him. I mean, whether he’s here or at home he’d just say the same things anyway. How’s school? Are you studying? Nothing else. He’s like a.....”
Like a voice recorder, Hope was going to say. But he saw the sadness in his mother’s eyes.
“Oh yeah, you were saying you wanted me to help you with something?” He said, trying to steer the conversation in a different direction. It’s stupid to get all worked up about someone who isn’t even here.
“Oh yes, right. Would you wash these vegetables for me?”
“Vegetables?”
“Well, since we’re staying in a condo that actually comes with a kitchen, it seems such a waste to keep eating out every day.”
She took out a large paper package. It smelled of dirt. Not the kind of smell you’d find in a grocery store.
“When did you have the chance to buy this stuff?”
“This morning, a local person gave them to me.”
Oh yeah, this morning mom woke up early, Hope thought. He had fallen asleep again, and she’d gone out for a walk. That must have been when she bought them.
“They told me this is ingredients they use in their cafe. There are some things they get from the market, but they told me they grow their own vegetables. Here, wash these.”
His mother separated the vegetables, giving Hope lumpy potato-looking things. His mother held some bug eaten leaves. You would never find these in any grocery store in Palumpolum. Or anywhere else.
“You’re always getting into the strangest things.” Hope said, sighing, and turned on the water. It wasn’t like this was the first time his mother did something like this.
“But it was just so interesting! The fieldworker was a very fashionable, good-looking young man you know. It’s only when I learned he worked at a cafe that it didn’t seem odd. And then there was a shorter boy, I think he might have been a bit older than you.”
“It’s still strange, choosing to work in a field.”
“Really? They looked like they were having fun.”
Someone who supports themselves... Hope couldn’t really understand it. There were food production plants that were under the careful management of the fal’Cie which produced large amounts of high quality food that was sold cheaply. He didn’t know how much vegetable seeds cost, but if they were anything like the flower seeds he had seen in garden supply stores then it was possible that growing your own food wasn’t any cheaper.
“And then this girl came, and they started talking, and then he ended up just giving me the vegetables.”
“You’re shameless.”
“I’m a mother, I’m strong.”
She laughed, and started washing the bug eaten leaves. It was as if she had completely forgotten the phone call just a few minutes ago. If only we had gone on vacation without him from the start, Hope thought. Then she wouldn’t worry so much, and would just be able to laugh like this. That’s why I hate him. I hate calls in the evening...
He scrubbed hard at the dirt on the vegetables. If only I could wash away everything else so easily, he thought.

Chapter Two

Ewleede Canyon was a very popular tourist spot. The energy plant there had a route set up for field trips and visitors, and it was said that the surrounding scenery was some of the most beautiful in all Cocoon.
The fact that you could see fal’Cie Kujata, the fal’Cie in charge of the plant, didn’t hurt either. The fal’Cie are important, supporting the people of Cocoon’s way of life, but it was not often that regular people got to see them so close.
That is why many of the people who visit the Coastal City of Bowdam also take a trip out to Ewleede Canyon. You could see the latest equipment inside the plant, enjoy the beautiful scenery, and then see a fal’Cie. It was those three things together that made this place such a draw for visitors.
Beside the plant there was a plaza with gift shops lined up, waiting for the tourists. Children on school field trips would meet there in groups, and you could always hear their excited voices. That’s the Ewleede Canyon everyone knew. But today was different.
“It’s completely different from those videos....” Hope murmured. They had finally arrived in Ewleede. The plaza was closed off, with tape stretched across the entrance. Armored soldiers were on guard. There were no places selling food and drink, no places selling balloons.
“It was a pretty big accident. I can’t believe there are more soldiers here than tourists.”
His mother seemed to be having fun, not bothered by any of it, but she couldn’t hide her surprise at how heavily guarded the place was.
“It must be hard for those soldiers from Bowdam. And they’ll be busy with the fireworks festival soon too.”
“No, that’s not their uniform, it’s PSICOMs... I think. But those people over there are regular soldiers.”
“Really?”
“I think so. I saw it in a picture that Kai showed me once.”
Kai’s dream was to become an airship pilot for the army when he grew up, so he knew a lot about it. If Kai were here he would know each type of gun that the soldiers were carrying. Hope hadn’t seen Kai for nearly three years. He had moved because of his parent’s job. Even though it was just to the next town over, their school was different, so they hadn’t really spoken much. At first they had called and mailed each other, but that grew gradually less and less...
“Hey, isn’t that the same pet shop we saw in Bowdam?”
Hope stopped his train of thought to look at where his mother was pointing. The familiar logo was spread across the closed shutter in front of the store.
“Isn’t that the place that was selling those baby chocobos?”
“Yes that one, they had said that their store in Ewleede was all sold out... I can’t believe all that happened here.”
That was on the day they had arrived in Bowdam. After checking into their condo, his mother had said she wanted to look around the shopping mall. Who would have thought then that an accident would happen in Ewleede.
Some children ran passed Hope. They must be on a field trip today today, he thought. No, wait, all schools are on vacation right now, so there’s probably just some sort of special event for children.
“Hurry up! Look, we’re already late.”
There’s a girl like that in every class, one who always tries to get everyone to obey the rules. There had been one in Hope’s class. There was one now. It was probably impossible for one not to be in a class. Just like a Cocoon without a fal’Cie was impossible.
“.... then I went on that nature field trip.”
“Oh, that one in Sanles?”
“Yes, that one.”
He turned at the voice. The girl spoke with pride. She must be talking about the Sanctum’s nature observational field trip, Hope thought. The Sanles Riverside is one of Cocoon’s few nature preserves. Since it is maintained for ecological research, citizens are not usually allowed inside. The only time they are is when the Sanctum has observational trips. They have the trips several times a year, and mostly only let school or other groups participate. The ones who get to go are chosen by lottery, and even if you apply for a trip you most likely won’t be chosen.
Only lucky kids get to go to Sanles. It was no wonder that girl was boasting about it. Kai probably boasted about it at his new school, saying that he went on the nature field trip at his old school.
“What’s wrong Hope?”
His mother had walked a bit ahead of him. She stopped, and looked back.
“No, just these kids that passed by were talking about Sanles. I was thinking about it.”
“Oh right, your school won the lottery on that didn’t they? Was that five years ago?”
“Six.”
When Kai was still there, and Elida. The three of them had always been together. At Sanles they had been together. He remembered running on the path behind them. He wondered if they still remembered the adventure they had there.

Chapter Three

Inside the airship everyone raised their voices in excitement. Below them shards of light scattered across the surface of the lake, glittering. Everything was colored in various shades of green. They had just passed over the residential area of the Sunleth Waterscape, which was next to the largest natural forest in all of Cocoon.
“Is that Lake Shela?”
“Hey, what’s that big tree over there?”
“Is that a mountain?”
The voices of the children were so loud it almost seemed they would break the windows of the airship.
“Alright, would everyone please be quiet!”
Their teachers voice echoed across theirs. After ten years of doing this the teacher didn’t blink an eye, but the airship staff were looking askance at the children. This airship usually only took on passengers that could pay their high price. Which means usually they would only see members of Sanctum on important business. Watching over children was out of their area of expertise.
The nature preserve was in an area that could only be reached by a special access point, for which they hired the latest civilian vessels. The result of which was that the the staff of the airship only had to deal with it a couple times a year, and were unused to it.
The airship gradually dropped altitude, and Lake Shela grew closer. The surface of the lake filled the view from the windows, and the children started talking excitedly again. Their teacher clapped her hands and raised her voice “Pay attention!” and everyone quieted.
“The airship will be landing soon. We will not be landing beside the lake, and there is only a temporary landing facility set up. Please take care not to run about. If you understand please raise your hand.”
Okay! Everyone said, raising their hands as one. Hope heard a voice beside him say “Oh wow...” It was Kai. Hope kept his hand raised and asked him quietly:
“What is it?”
“It’s really hard to land somewhere that doesn’t have a landing strip.”
“Oh?”
“And this airship is huge, only a specialist pilot could land this here.”
Hope didn’t really know what he was talking about. Kai wanted to be an army pilot when he grew up, so he knew all about that sort of thing, but Hope knew nothing. But if Kai said the pilot was amazing, it must be true.
“What are you two talking about?” Elida said. She was standing beside Kai, leaning over him.
“You’re being loud.” Kai frowned at her. Elida was the best singer in the class, but she also had the loudest voice.
They had met during the opening ceremonies when they had first entered elementary school. The teachers had sat them together. They sat together in class as well, and the three of them became close. They were always doing stuff together.
Their interests, likes and personalities were completely different, but sometimes a external closeness matters more than an internal one. They lived close by each other, and often went home from school together. Both Hope and Elida were the only children in their family, but Kai had a little brother who was three years younger. His name was Hal, and the four of them often played together. Year after year, they always ended up in the same class. Though they weren’t always seated together, during trips and events like this one they always got together.
“He says the airship’s pilot is really amazing.” Hope leaned on Elida to whisper in her ear.
“Amazing? What is?” Elida tilted her head. Kai was about to give a detailed explanation, when the teacher ran over.
“Hey, you over there! Stop talking and lower your hands.”
Only the three of them still had their hands raised in the air. They quickly dropped their hands in embarrassment and everyone laughed.
“It’s all your fault you know!” Elida said, pouting. That’s when the scenery outside suddenly stopped. He hadn’t even felt the slightest tremor as the ship landed. Hope didn’t know anything about airships, but even he could tell that the pilot was good.
“See, pretty good huh?” Kai said, as if he were the one who landed the ship.

The first place the children looked at as they got off the airship was what was beneath their feet. They had never felt anything like it before. In Palumpolum there were streets everywhere. Even in parks there were few places where the earth was exposed. They were surprised at the strange feeling underneath their feet, but when they got a good look around they became more surprised at what they saw. Grass and trees weren’t usual, but they were always in planters or surrounded by rocks. They had never really seen so many green things like they could here.
“Alright, pay attention everyone! Does anyone remember the field trip rules we learned yesterday?”
Everyone raised their hands.
“Okay, then what are the three “don’ts”, let’s everyone say it together!”
“Don’t run, don’t play around, don’t push.”
“Very good! It’s different here than it is in the city. It’s easy to slip so you shouldn’t run. The monsters here are usually quiet, but if you yell or make loud noises it will surprise them and they might attack you. So let’s be very quiet, okay?”
They had gone over this several times since they found out they had been chosen to go. They all knew just telling people to be quiet probably wouldn’t do anything, so they drummed it into their heads. Soldiers had already driven the most dangerous monsters away from the path they would be taking. The only ones left were the quietest and gentlest monsters, and even they were gently dissuaded from coming near the visitors.
Doing this took a lot more time than simply killing all the monsters. But in Sunleth they were studying the monsters, so they couldn’t kill them. Hope had heard about it from his father.
“And there is one more important thing you must remember. There are a lot of ravines and cliffs here, and it is very dangerous. Today they have platforms and ropes set up for us, but only in certain areas. Never go outside of the observation area! These researchers will be guiding us, so please listen to everything they say. Everyone understand?”
Everyone raised their hand, and Hope looked over to the path they would be taking. Through the dense trees he could see steep craggy cliffs and sharp rocks. He felt a bit nervous about walking in a place that was “very dangerous.”
According to the plan, they would go from Lake Shela on through Rainbow Pass, and walk along the forest trail before turning back. Once they returned to the lakeside they would eat lunch and have some free time. Hope thought that only people that wanted to walk on the path should have to. If they didn’t want to they should be able to stay there.
The edge of Lake Shela was beautiful. Flowers of various colors grew all around. Close by there were huge trees, the shade beneath them looked cool and quiet.
Hope preferred playing indoors than being outside. He liked playing games at home, or going over to Kai’s house to look at pictures of army weapons and machinery. But since both Kai and Elida liked playing outdoors, they only played inside on rainy days, or when Hal was feeling too sick to go outside.
“Alright, now we’ll be dividing you up by class. The path is narrow, so please form a single file line!”
Every class had a researcher to guide them. Unlike the teachers, the researchers were not used to raising their voices. They each carried a small megaphone with them.
The line of children moved slowly along. At just a bit less than a hundred people, the line was fairly long.
“These flowers are so beautiful.” Elida reached her hand out to a pale red flower, but Hope stopped her.
“You can’t. It says we aren’t supposed to touch or pick any of the plants. They said there are even some that can give you a rash.”
“I know that. I was just going to take a picture.” Elida said as she took out a toy camera from her pocket.
“I wonder if mom would like a picture of a flower....”
Hope took out his own toy camera. The cameras would send data automatically, and were an absolute must for events like these. Compared to normal cameras, the toy camera only had a little bit of space for data. Once you’ve filled up all of the memory on the camera, the data would be sent automatically to the nearest computer terminal. Then, within the same day the paper photos are sent to your house. The camera itself is cheap and meant to be used and thrown away, so it’s perfect for children who might drop it or break it. And being able to use up all the space on the camera in a day makes it even better.
Hope aimed his camera at the pale red flower. He also took a picture of the white flower next to it. It’s thin petals scattered in the breeze. He took a picture of that too. I hope the pictures come out, he thought. There were flowers here that you’d never see in the city. And not just flowers. The monster he could see in the distance just added to Sunleth's charm.
Hope was in a trance, clicking picture after picture. He hardly even noticed climbing up the hill.
“Hey, don’t you think the wind here has a sort of... strange smell?” Elida said to him. Hope had been noticing it too. Once they left the lakeside and started walking through the pass. He had smelled it then.
“It smells like, ick, medicine.” Kai sniffed the air and grimaced.
“No, not like medicine. More like herbs?”
“Yeah, it’s kind of like the stuff gramps drinks.”
Probably hearing their conversation, the female researcher in front of them turned and and smiled.
“That’s the smell of green stuff. Of dirt and grass.”
All the children in the area exchanged glances. They had dirt in the city. They had flower pots, and other plants that grew out of the ground. But they had never smelled anything like this.
“Untreated and unpurified dirt smells like this. And the plants that grow in it.”
Come to think of it, Hope thought, the flowers smelled different too. Not really different, just stronger. He had gotten just close enough to take a picture of them, but the sweet smell of the flowers had reached him. It had surprised him. He wondered if that was because of the dirt here.
“Look! A monster!” Someone yelled. When he looked, he saw something crawling along the edge of a ravine. It was translucent, and squishy looking. What a strange monster.
“That’s a Vegetapudding. The improved breed is edible you know.”
Everyone raised their voices in shock and disbelief.
“I don’t think I’ll tell you what it gets processed into. It would be so much trouble if some kids got disgusted and wouldn’t eat it anymore.” She winked jokingly.
Their field trip was about to degrade into a discussion on what kind of food a Vegetapudding could possibly be, when they reached Rainbow Pass. The researcher probably had that planned from the beginning when she started talking about edible Vegetapuddings.
When they reached the top of the pass, the view there erased all thoughts of monsters. A rainbow arched in the sky, and light shone down through cracks in the clouds. He heard the click of someone’s camera. They must have just remembered they had one. That was the signal. Everyone grabbed their cameras and hurried to take a picture of the scene before them.
“There are lots of beautiful places, so remember to save so space on your cameras.”
On those words the sound of clicking stopped. Hope just barely managed to stop himself. He had almost used all of his space up.
“If only I could have brought another camera.” Elida said sadly. Probably everyone was thinking the same thing. But the rule was that they could have only one camera per person.
“Alright everyone, look over here please.” The researcher was speaking through her megaphone. She must have waited until everyone was finished taking pictures to start her speech.
“As everyone already knows, the weather in Cocoon is controlled by the fal’Cie. As a general rule, the fal’Cie do not tell humans what the weather schedule is going to be.”
But there are exceptions. For storms, lightning, strong wind and other bad weather the fal’Cie send notices to the Sanctum, and the Sanctum warns the citizens so they can prepare. The announcements from the fal’Cie are always correct, they never miss.
Compare this to the so-called “weather forecast”, where humans gather data on weather climate changes. They are usually quite accurate, but are still nothing but predictions and can occasionally be wrong.
“Unlike the rest of Cocoon, the weather in Sunleth is controlled by it’s own fal’Cie. This is because we are studying the effect rain, wind and other weather have on the plants and monsters.”
Elida raised her hand, wanting to ask a question.
“Are there any monsters that dislike rain?”
Elida hates rain. That’s probably why she thought of that question.
“Of course there are. But also, there are monsters that love the rain too.”
Elida made a face. She looked as though she wished she hadn’t asked. Hope and Kai both had to stifle a laugh.
“It’s not on our tour today, but beyond that cliff there is a valley where we are keeping monsters that love rain and monsters that hate it. We are controlling the rain in that area and checking to see how the monsters react. That is also why you will often see a rainbow from this pass.”
Didn’t dad say that it was light refracting off of water particles in the air that made rainbows? Hope thought to himself. I should ask him about the edible Vegetapuddings. He’d know.
“Alright, let’s head off to the next area. Up ahead is a place called “The Tree Shaded Path”. There are a lot of unusual sunlight hating plants growing there. But it’s very slippery, so be careful when you take pictures.” That is all, the researcher said, flipping the switch on her microphone.
They formed a line again and continued on down the path. The road from the lakeside to the top of Rainbow Pass had been a hill, but now it was a gentle slope downward. Despite that, it was more difficult to walk on. Hope had never known how slippery wet grass and dirt could be. The path was flat, with no rocks, but he nearly fell many times. When he did fall he became all covered in dirt. The information he had received about the field trip had said, “Bring shoes that are easy to walk in, and clothes that you don’t mind getting dirty.” Now he knew what that meant.
Looking around, he was glad that he still had some space left on his toy camera. He forgot his fatigue as he snapped pictures of the soft light hitting the rocks, of the grass transparent as crystal.
When they came to the end of the path, Hope took one last picture. The light indicating that the data was being sent blinked and then switched off. Now it was nothing but an empty box. As he stuffed it in his pocket, he felt insecure. Now he had nothing to do.
Though it was the same path back, it seemed to become more difficult to walk on. His footsteps felt heavy.
“Ugh, can’t we go home now?” Hope said, complaining a little.
“Seriously.” Elida said, out of breath.
“But once we get back to Lake Shela we’ll have free time!”
Kai was the only one who seemed full of energy. Apparently falling down didn’t bother him. His hands and clothes were covered in dirt.
“Kai you need to be more careful. What if you hurt yourself?”
He said he was fine, but quickly fell on his backside. Unfazed, he jumped up and continued walking.
“If he says he’s fine, then he’s fine.” Elida said, sighing.

After eating lunch and resting a bit, Hope felt his fatigue completely disappear. When he had returned to the lake shore he had thought he would never want to move again.
“What should we do? We still have lots of time.”
Here they could run and yell all they wanted, they wouldn’t get in trouble for it.
"Let’s climb that big tree over there. I want to take a picture from the top.”
“You haven’t finished taking all of your pictures yet Kai? You usually take them all at once.” Elida said, surprised. Hope could sense something bad happening, he tried to come between them before something happened.
“We can’t climb the trees or rocks. If you climbed that tree and fell, you’d die.”
Neither Kai nor Elida would be able to think about other things when they were excited about something. It was always up to Hope to try and stop them.
“So how would you climb it? I don’t think you can.”
“But I promise Hal. I told him I would take a really cool picture for him.”
Oh yeah, that’s right, Hope thought, Hal had wanted to come on this trip. But Hal wasn’t even in school yet. Kai had spent a long time trying to calm him down, trying to think of something to make up for him not being able to go. That’s probably why he had promised he’d take a cool picture.
“Then why didn’t you take one on top of Rainbow Pass....”
“I did. But it didn’t seem enough. I took pictures of monsters too, but it didn’t seem quite cool enough you know? So for my last picture I want to take it from the top of that tree.”
“But you can’t. Not that tree.”
“You never know until you try.” Kai said, putting his hand in his pocket. He frowned.
“What’s wrong?”
Kai said nothing, checking his pocket on the other side. Hope felt relieved.
“What? You didn’t drop your camera did you?”
He looked in his coat pocket, and in his bag. After looking everywhere he could, he finally gave up. Hope and Elida could tell what had happened just by looking at his face.
“Well I’m sure it fell around here somewhere.” Hope said.
It has to be, everyone agreed. So they looked around they area, but came up with nothing.
“Did you drop it on the path? You did keep falling over.” Elida pointed to his dirty knees.
“No, I had it with me when we came back. I was trying to decide whether or not to take a picture on the pass. I know I had it with me then.”
So it had to be somewhere between Rainbow Pass and the lakeside. But they couldn’t get there anymore. When they came back the path was closed off again. The researchers wanted to keep outside interference to a minimum.
“Hey Hope, does your camera have any space left on it?”
Usually Hope would end up lending him his camera. Kai and Elida would always take pictures twice as fast as Hope would, and use up all their space. Hope thought that they should think a little bit more about the pictures they take, but when he told them that they just said that he thought too much. In the end his camera would end up having pictures from all three of them.
But today was different.
“Sorry, the data already sent.”
It was impossible to think too much about taking pictures here. The scenery in Sunleth was so beautiful. That made it even more strange that Kai wouldn’t have finished taking pictures.
“Me too. I used it all on Rainbow Pass.” Elida said.
Kai sighed.
“Guess that’s that then.”
“Don’t worry, I’ll show Hal my pictures too.” Elida tried to make him feel better. “Hope will show him his pictures too. That should be okay, right? He’ll see double the pictures. I’m sure he’ll be happy with that.”
But the pictures would be arriving at their houses tonight. Hal would only get to see them tomorrow, after school. Hope thought of Hal. The four of them usually played together after school. It upset him that he would be the only one not going. He kept saying, “Why can’t I go?”
Hal would be so disappointed...
No, they had to do it. They had to do it for Hal.
“Let’s go look for it.”
Kai and Elida both looked surprised.
“It’s not that far to Rainbow Pass. We’ll just look around until free time is over.”
“But we’re not supposed to go on the path.”
“It’s okay, we’ll just have to sneak in.”
They glanced at each other. They never thought Hope would say anything like this.
“My dad said you should never break a promise, no matter how small.”

He had also said that even if you’ve forgotten a promise, the other person will remember it. Kai could just say that it couldn’t be helped and be done with it. But Hal would have been waiting excitedly all day for those pictures.
“Let’s go look for it.” He said again. Even though Hal wasn’t his age, he was a friend. Elida seemed to feel the same.
“Yeah, we don’t want Hal to be disappointed.”
It was decided.

Chapter Four

They couldn’t go through the entrance to the main path. Researchers had begun their clean up of the area. They decided to take a side path. Whether it really was a side path or not they couldn’t tell, but it looked like one.
“We’ll get there if we go this way, right?” Elida turned back, sounding worried.
“Well the direction is right. If we keep going this way, we should find the main path...”
They were only a short distance away from the shore, but the sounds of their classmates seemed terribly far away. Hope thought that maybe this wasn’t the right way after all.
“When we go back we should take the main path.”
“But if they catch us at the entrance they’ll get angry at us.”
"Don’t worry, by then they’ll be finished cleaning up.”
“But the teachers might be watching.”
The forest around them was too quiet, so they felt they had to talk loudly about stupid things. When they were in a large group of people it didn’t seem so bad, but now that it was just the three of them the quiet was frightening.
“Hey look at that! It looks like some sort of fruit.” Elida said brightly. She pointed up to a branch that was bent under the weight of several yellowish red fruits. It was larger than any fruit they had ever seen in the store.
“I wonder if it’s okay to eat?”
“You can’t pick them. Really, Elida, you’ll grab just about anything.”
“I do not!”
“Well it is a very pretty color...”
“I said it’s not like that!” Elida was getting angry.
“Hey... guys?” Kai cut into their argument. “Don’t you think that color looks familiar? You know, the thing she said was... edible?”
Then Hope noticed it too. That monster they had seen near Rainbow Pass, it had a very similar color. Hope remembered that it hadn’t been too far away from the main path...
Then the earth rose up in front of them, like a red wall. It was that monster. It’s red translucent body swelled. A Vegetapudding, Hope thought, scared. His feet took off running before he realized it.
“Aaah! It’s following us!” Elida screamed, nearly in tears. Hope was the slowest of the three, and there was no time to look back. He just ran, moving his legs as hard as he could. If they left him behind it would all be over for him. He ran as long as his breath held out. He couldn’t tell where they were running. The found a rock they could hide behind, and dove into it’s protective shadow. His heart was beating so hard he felt as though it would jump up through his mouth.
“It... it’s not behind us...” Kai looked out from behind the boulder, then sat down in relief. Hope felt his legs go weak. He couldn’t run another step.
The three of them sat, breathing heavily. Hope felt a chill run down his body. If the ground had been slippery like it had been on the main path, or if one of them had tripped over something, who knows what might have happened. They were lucky the three of them managed to get away.
“Hey, where... are we?”
They had thought they were walking towards the main path. If it was the wrong direction, they could have just turned back and gone a different way. But they couldn’t now.
“This place seems a little... different.”
The gloomy trees that had surrounded them before were gone, and bare cliffs rose up on either side. The grass at their feet was sparse. It was a dry and desolate place.
“Which way did we come from?”
They had been so intent on getting behind the boulder that they hadn’t even noticed which way they had ran. All they could see now were rocks and cliffs going in all directions.
“Well the pass should be in whatever direction the rainbows are...”
But the cliffs blocked their view. They could barely see the sky let alone rainbows.
“I think it’s this way.”
“No, no. It’s this way.”
Kai and Elida pointed in completely opposite directions. Hope couldn’t tell which of them might be right. They really had no idea which direction was which anymore.
“Well... let’s just keep walking then.”
“But you aren’t supposed to go anywhere if you get lost.”
“Maybe in other places, but what if another monster attacks? We wouldn’t be able to run away.”
The path here was craggy and uneven, there would be nothing they could do if they were attacked by a fast monster.
“If we find a place where we can see everything, we should be able to see the lake. Then we’ll know how to get back.”
“Right. We’ve just gotten a little bit off the path, if we could see the lake it would all work out.” Kai agreed. Elida slowly nodded, still unconvinced.
“Oh yeah, wait just a minute.” Hope grabbed a sharp rock and carved an ‘X’ into the boulder. “Let’s go right. If we’re wrong we can always come back here. Then we can try going left.”
“Wow Hope. You’re so smart!”
“My dad taught me. He said if you’re lost in a place you don’t know, make sure you know how to get back to where you were.”
“Well, then your dad is smart.” Elida laughed. Complimenting his dad made Hope feel happier than if she had complimented himself.
“Let’s hurry. They’ll probably be leaving soon.”
The three of them nodded, and started off together. Even though it was noon the light in the narrow passage between the cliffs was dim. They walked without a sound. They were worried that their voices might carry to any monsters within earshot. Without anyone saying so, the three of them held hands. It made them feel stronger, somehow, walking along a path they didn’t know.
Parts of the cliff face glittered with blue. If they hadn’t be lost, they would have thought the pale light beautiful. But now even that light seemed ominous. The air was warm, and a tepid wind blew through the crevice.
Hope didn’t know how far they had walked. The cliff face continued unfalteringly on either side. Then, in the distance, they saw something that looked like a machine. They looked at each other, nodding, and broke into a run. They thought they might be able to use it to send data or to call out. If it was anything like the ones they had at home, they would be able to contact their teachers. But as they closed in on it they could see it was nothing like a household machine. It didn’t look like something children could use.
“Let’s just try pushing buttons.”
“We shouldn’t. What if we broke it...” But before Hope could stop her, Elida touched the panel. It lit up.
“See, we can figure this out.” Elida said proudly. As soon as she said that the light on the panel went out again and the machine grew quiet.
“Huh? That doesn’t work? Oh well, I guess I’ll just try doing it the way mom taught me...” Elida made a fist. Hope and Kai grabbed her arms on either side. Both of them knew what “doing it mom’s way” entails.
“No way! If you do that it will break!”
“Only your mom could make things work by hitting them!”
Elida looked unhappy but relaxed her hands.
“Well then what should we do?”
“Let’s walk a bit farther. If there’s a machine here then that means people should be close by.”
The path was still difficult, uneven and rocky, but the hope that there was someone nearby gave them the energy to go on.
“Hey, what do you think this is?”
They had just come out on the other side of a tunnel, when Hope saw a strange thing floating just in front of his face. It was a glowing ball, just about the size of a human head. It look as though it were made of water, and it wobbled in the air in front of them.
“Well, it’s not a monster, it isn’t attacking us.”
“We’ve told you not to touch things!” Hope and Kai screamed together. But they were too late. Elida touched the glowing ball with her palm. The wind grew cold, and the sky grew dark. Droplets of water fell down on them, and then in a rush it changed to a whole downpour of rain. Now they knew what that ball was. It was a rain control device.
They ran underneath the tunnel. It was the only place they could escape from the rain.
“Well, at least now we know which direction we’re going. They said there was some rain thing nearby Rainbow Pass right? So we know that the pass is just on the other side of these cliffs.”
“That’s nice and all, but what’ll we do about this rain?”
Hope was going to stop the two of them from arguing, but then he remembered. When they were on Rainbow Pass, the thing the researcher had been talking about... ‘There are monsters that love the rain too.’ And this place is meant for studying those monsters...
I have to stop the rain, Hope thought, and he ran out from underneath the rocks. But that was as far as he got. He stopped, then stepped back a pace. Right in front of him was a yellow frog-looking monster. Behind it were more of the same in various colors. They had sharp claws at the ends their webbed forelegs. His whole body grew cold looking at them.
He tried to run but tripped over his own feet, landing on his back. He knew he had to run but he couldn’t make himself stand. Behind him he heard a scream. There were monsters near Elida too. She was the loudest person in their class, and her scream was earsplitting. Hope thought somewhere in the back of his mind that maybe it would surprise the monsters and they’d run.
For a moment the monsters stopped moving. But no monster would ever run at the scream of a child. They started creeping closer. He could see sharp teeth in their open mouths. They’re going to eat me, he thought.
Hope squeezed his eyes shut, and curled into a ball. But an attack from the sharp teeth and nails never came. Shaking, he slowly opened his eyes. The rain had stopped. The monsters were slowly moving away. Someone had used the rain control device and stopped the rain.
“The fal’Cie here controls the rain....”
Perhaps it was the fal’Cie who had saved them. He then heard Elida’s scream.
“Look! It’s the airship!”
Kai yelled. They could see the airship through the crack in the cliffs. Maybe it was searching for them. It was stopped in midair, hovering. The fal’Cie must have called the airship too, Hope thought. Kai dashed out from underneath the rock, waving his hands in the air and yelling.
“Can you stand?” Elida grabbed his hand and helped him stand. He looked around, but didn’t see any researchers or anything that might be a fal’Cie.
“Hope, hurry!”
He nodded and ran after Kai and Elida, waving his hands and yelling at the airship.

Once they were on the ship, they were taken to a separate room and questioned about what happened. They got a lecture from their teacher about how the monsters they ran into in Sunleth could have hurt them. They hadn’t expected anything less.
Now that they were back on the ship, Kai miraculously had his toy camera returned to him. A researcher had found it when they were doing their clean up of the path, and brought it back to the airship. They hadn’t needed to go looking for it after all. They should have just waited until free time was over.
I never should have said we should go looking for it, Hope thought, feeling regret. He didn’t know what Kai and Elida were thinking, but they didn’t seem angry with him.
“Did the fal’Cie stop the rain?” Elida asked their teacher. She must have had the same thought that Hope had. The fal’Cie is the only one who could have stopped the rain like that.
“It was probably a researcher who controlled it from somewhere far away, but most likely it was a fal’Cie who made the decision to stop the rain generator.”
It wasn’t the fal’Cie who called the airship either. It was the panel that Elida had touched. A researcher had noticed some strange activity coming from a machine in this area, and realized that someone had intruded into “Rain Valley”.
“They said that it’s really difficult to land there. If the pilot wasn’t so good, you probably would have still been wandering around lost in that canyon. We should go and thank the pilot later.”
Finally they were allowed to go back to their seats.
“Kai, uh...” Sorry I got us in trouble, Hope wanted to say.
“That was really cool.” Kai laughed, slapping Hope on the back. Hope nodded back and smiled.
“Kai! Take out your camera!” Elida pointed out the window. It was already evening. Many points of light were scattered below them in the fading sunlight. It was the lights of the Sunleth Waterscape’s airship runway. Kai hurried to take the picture. Finally all the space on the camera was used up, and the light indicating that the data was sending came on. The picture that Kai had promised to take for Hal, that final picture, was a night view of Sunleth.

Chapter Five

No matter how small the promise you shouldn’t break it... huh...
Hope reflected on the words the memory brought. I believed in those words, he thought. I always believed in them. Then even my father, the very man who taught them to me, forgot them.
No, his father probably still follows them to the letter. Just not when it concerns Hope or his mother. If it’s his work he’ll go running, anytime day or night. He’ll even forget to eat, locked away in his study. The way his father is now, nothing is more important, nothing takes more precedence, than work.
His father no longer remember promises made with his family. He didn’t even listen to them anymore. When was the last time Hope bothered to start a conversation with him? A long time ago. What did I want to talk about, he wondered, I’ve even forgotten what it was. His father had said “Sorry, I can’t now, we can talk about it later.” Now the only thing Hope could remember was how his father had just brushed him aside. He remembered it as if it were yesterday. When his father had left, he finally realized something. It didn’t matter what he expected, what he’d hope for, there was nothing he could do.
“It’s too bad everything has been closed off, but at least we were able to see fal’Cie Kujata.”
His mother’s words brought him back to himself. They had just seen the fal’Cie of the energy plant, and were heading back to the entrance. He couldn’t make peace with his thoughts, but looked away and feigned disinterest.
“This trip seemed too short.”
“Half of the plant was closed off. It really couldn’t be helped you know.”
The accident that happened at Ewleede was far more serious than the reports had let on. You could tell just by coming here.
“I wonder if the fal’Cie in Sunleth was like that one.”
“Oh right, you went there during that nature field trip. You didn’t meet the fal’Cie?”
“Nope. They told us about how it controls the weather, but the only thing we saw were monsters.”
“Oh yes, I remember. You were attack by those monsters and got a fever. I was so worried.”
Maybe it was because he had encountered monsters twice during his time at Sunleth, but on their trip home Hope had suddenly fallen ill with a fever. Once they reached Palumpolum he was immediately taken to the emergency room. Because that happened he never got to thank the pilot of the airship. He had heard about it from Kai and Elida three days later.
“He was super cool. He was this old guy who had hair like a bird’s nest.”
“He said his son was just born a little while ago.”
“When I told him I wanted to become a pilot, he said ‘Good luck!’”
Kai couldn’t stop talking about the pilot of that airship. After that, Kai never wavered in his dream to become a pilot. It made Hope a little jealous. Even Elida had a dream for what she wanted to do in the future. She said she wanted to become a singer, so she entered into an all girls school that had a special music program. That was a year ago.
When I was younger I wanted to become like my father...
Of course now his father is an example of the kind of person he doesn’t want to become. No matter what kind of job he worked at, he didn’t want to become the kind of person who will ignore those who are close to him. He would be happy so long as he never became the kind of person who would forget even the tiniest promise.
“.... right?”
“Uh, what? Sorry, I wasn’t listening.”
He resolved to stop thinking so much and actually listen. Not listening to people when they talk would be exactly what his father would do...
“The people just passing by were just saying that during the accident a little boy was hurt very badly. They said it was so sad, they couldn’t even look at his father who was with him.”
“I see...”
“I hope he doesn’t die. There is nothing sadder than when a child dies before their parent...”
It doesn’t matter whether the parent or the child goes first, Hope thought, when a family member dies it’s still sad. For those who are left behind.
But Hope didn’t say so. Somehow he couldn’t say it.
“Um, Hope... are you... mad at your father?”
“Not really.”
“He’s just not really all that good at those sort of things you know, but there is a lot of trust in him, he doesn’t want to do a bad job.”
When he looked at his mother’s face, he felt the tight feeling in his chest relax.
“I’m not mad. He’ll be here for the fireworks festival right? Well then that’s okay. I mean the fireworks are the main event after all.”
His mother’s smile looked so happy. Maybe I should try talking with my father on the night of the festival, Hope thought. Of course he’ll just say “How have you been?” or something like that, but if he could just see his mother smile like this, he didn’t care...
A masked soldier walked in front of them. The repairs after the accident should have already been complete, and the usual soldiers at the plant were the security force. Why were there so many PSICOM soldiers around? He felt like some strange, awful thing was crawling up his legs. His mother had a worried look on her face as they got closer to the plaza. Hope tried to make his voice bright an airy.
“Come on, let’s go back to Bowdam. We already saw that fal’Cie.”
Maybe his mother also wanted to shake off that strange feeling that he had felt, she replied in the same bright tone.
“Okay, then let’s go to the shopping mall.”
“Again?”
He didn’t want to think anymore about soldiers and the fal’Cie. He just wanted to think about having fun. Hmm, maybe when I return to Palumpolum I’ll talk to Kai and Elida, Hope thought. If I tell him I saw a ton of soldiers in Ewleede Kai is sure to come running. Elida will probably want to hear more about the fireworks festival than the plant.
It’ll be three years since we’ve been together, Hope thought, thinking of his friends.
His school vacation had only just begun.

Part VI: Present

“It’s so hard picking out a birthday present for her.” Serah sighed. They were standing in front of the stationary store. Looking at her face, Snow thought she looked so serious... and just like Lightning, who Snow had seen just a few days before. They really are sisters, he thought.
Antique book ends and leather pen holders filled the storefront window. Serah examined the items on display for awhile, but then shook her head, muttering “This doesn’t seem quite right either...”
Two days from now would be Serah’s older sister, Lightning’s, birthday. Snow and Serah had come to the shopping mall to look for a present for her. But for nearly an hour now Serah had just been looking around and saying everything “Wasn’t quite right.”
“Is it really that hard?”
“Yes. Every year I spend a long time searching, but I can never find just the right thing.”
“Why don’t you ask her?”
“I can’t! I’ve asked her before, and do you know what she said?”
“Whatever you choose will be fine?” Snow was only making a guess, but Serah’s eyes grew wide.
“Wow! How did you know?”
“It just seemed like something she’d say. You know, like something a parent would say to a child.”
“Yeah... I guess she’s always been like a mom to me.” Serah slowly began to smile, but then suddenly stopped. “And you shouldn’t hide things from your parents...” Serah’s eyes dropped to the bandages wrapped around her left arm. Serah still hadn’t told Lightning what was beneath them. Snow already knew: a symbol of Pulse. Serah had gone into the Vestige and been made into a l’Cie by the Pulse fal’Cie there. She was an enemy of Cocoon. That was why Serah had asked that they break up. But he had promised her he’d help her search for her Focus. They would search for it--and complete it--together. After that... he didn’t know.
He had asked the customers at the cafe if there were anyone who knew anything about Pulse or l’Cie, but had no luck. Everyone had only heard fairy tales when they were children, or read about it in school textbooks.
But he didn’t give up. He started asking friends of friends if they knew anything. Nothing. Worse than nothing in fact, as one guy tried to sell him some suspicious looking items and he hightailed it out of there.
He even thought about going straight to the fal’Cie and asking it himself. But Serah put her foot down on that idea.
”You don’t know what will happen if you make the fal’Cie mad!” She had said. ”It might make you into a l’Cie, or even worse! Who knows what would happen to the people in Bodhum...”
So he gave up the idea. If it would only make him into a l’Cie, that wouldn’t be any problem to him. But he couldn’t let anything hurt the people of Bodhum. No, he couldn’t let Serah face the wrath of the fal’Cie by herself.
And that’s how he ended up where he was now, with nothing. He had nothing to go on, but he knew it would work out somehow. He would make it work. He still hadn’t asked every person on Cocoon. Until he had done that...
He placed one hand over her bandages, and held her with the other.
“It’s alright. You won’t have to hide anything anymore two days from now, right?”
They had decided they would tell Lightning everything on her birthday. Snow had told Serah that it would be much easier to get her to talk then, besides which, he would be with her. Serah had smiled at him when he said that.
But she still seemed worried about whether or not she would be able to talk with her sister. Sometimes, though only for a moment, he would look over and see her looking sad. Like now.
“Hey, look at that! Wouldn’t that be great?” Snow pointed to a toy store, trying to get her to laugh. A large stuffed Carbuncle toy was set up in the store window. It was green with long ears and a big tail, and wore a jester’s costume. An Eidolon from fairy tales, he was made to be cute and somewhat silly. Nothing could suit Lightning less than this. Surely Serah would laugh too...
“You’re right! This would be great!”
“What?”
Serah ran towards the store.
“Um, somehow I don’t think...” Surely she didn’t think he was serious? Unless Lightning really liked toys like this...?
“Kidding!” Serah laughed. She spun around and stuck out her tongue. Snow must have had a shocked look on his face, because Serah burst out laughing. Snow smiled too, slightly sheepish. She got me, he thought. For a moment there I was imagining Lightning sleeping with a Carbuncle toy in her arms...
Laughing, they walked on by. Snow was glad that he at least got her to smile again. He didn’t want her to look sad, for even a second.
“... nk you.” He heard her whisper.
“Huh? Did you say something?”
“No no, nothing. Hey, looks go look at that store.” Serah said, pulling on his arm. He couldn’t ask her what she said now, but he didn’t need to. Her voice had been so quiet he had barely heard her, but he knew she had said, “thank you.”
He decided to pretend he hadn’t heard. Asking her would just remind her of the reality that awaited her. Snow just wanted her to forget all of that, and smile.
“Maybe instead of a Carbuncle doll, we should get her a Leviathan one.”
“Are you still talking about that?”
“Well I just thought that Leviathan would fit Lightning better.”
“They aren’t even selling one. Come on Snow.” Serah laughed at the idea, then stopped, a look of excitement on her face. “I know!” She said. “I should get her a good luck charm! I mean, she’s a soldier, right? I bet she has a lot of dangerous jobs.”
“Well she is the raid leader of the Bodhum security force.”
“She’s what?”
“That’s what her superior officer called her.”
“That seems like her.” Serah said with a smile.
“Let’s see... a good luck charm should be... something you can have on you at all times. That would be good, don’t you think? Since we’re both picking it.” Then, Snow spotted a sign for an accessory shop. What perfect timing. “Why don’t we go check out that place?”
“Really? I don’t know... She’s never really been interested in that sort of thing.” Serah said, cocking her head to the side. Then she smiled, thinking of something. “Oh hey, it’s that same store from last time. Maybe they will have something perfect for Lightning.” Serah shook her cat shaped earrings. Snow was wearing a necklace that had that same shape. It was a present she had given him. Because they are like a nora cat--a wild cat--they had named themselves NORA. That was the name of his team. As soon as they had decided that, Serah had gone to this shop and bought the earrings and necklace. But Snow had never really been into wearing jewelry, so he resisted wearing it at first. He was happy getting a present from Serah, but it was just too embarrassing to wear. He needed a lot of courage to first start wearing it, and even then he kept thinking about it being there, all the time. He only finally got used to it when he and Serah started spending every day together.
In any case, if this was that accessory shop then surely they’d find what they were looking for. A present for Lightning and... one more thing.
“Hmm? Something seems odd.” Serah looked around the shop when they went inside.
“What does?”
“It looks like there are more people here than there were before. And even more different types of people seem to be here.”
As this was Snow’s first time in the shop, he couldn’t tell one way or the other. Serah told him that when she first was here, the only customers were young women. Now there were older people, couples with children, and all sorts of people here. Snow was relieved. He wouldn’t have felt comfortable for long in a shop filled only with young women.
“Well, that’s a good thing right?”
“I guess. We will find a present for Lightning here, won’t we?”
“Sure we will.” Snow said, his eyes straying over to the corner that had rings lined up on a table. Tomorrow was the fireworks festival, the one with the fireworks that are supposed to grant you your wishes. It was on that day that he planned to ask Serah to marry him. Of course, for that he would need a ring, and this was the store where Serah had bought that cat shaped jewelry. That meant there should be something good here, or at least he thought so.
He looked at the rings that lay in the display case, and compared them with Serah’s slim fingers. They would look wonderful on her. But then he looked at his own hands...
“There is no way those would fit.” He yelled without realizing it. Serah looked at him oddly.
“Are you okay?”
“Um... no, I’m fine.” Snow said, looking back at the display case. There was no way even the largest of those rings could fit on his hands. His fingers were at least one or two times too big. They would never fit. Not to mention, fancy rings like this would break easily by just punching a couple of monsters. How unlucky would it be to break your wedding ring?
“Maybe a ring is a bad idea... it doesn’t need to be a ring.”
“That’s true, it might be a little awkward for her to wear...” Serah said.
He hadn’t meant to say that aloud, but it seems he had done it again anyway.
“During jobs where she has to get her hands dirty she’d have to take it off. It’s not a good present if it interferes with her job.”
“Uh... yeah... right!”
He had never been more annoyed with himself for his big mouth. Don’t say anything that will make her suspicious, Snow said to himself, and turned to look at the next display. Even I could wear one of these, he thought, quietly this time. The table was filled with bracelets. Most of them looked as though the size could be changed, and there were many different designs. Some had nice fretwork, others had birthstones on them, and even a few that looked like handcuffs with a lock and key. The ones with the birthstones would be good, he thought, if they were widened a bit they could even fit me. But just as he had made his decision...
“Oh, this would be perfect for my Mary-poo!” The woman reached out and took the bracelet that Snow had his eye on.
“Uh...” Mary-poo? This is why old ladies are so annoying, he thought, looking over to the woman next to him.
“Look how cute it is on her!” The woman in question was around middle age and held a tiny dog in her arms. That must be “Mary-poo”, of the ever popular “lapdog” breeds. Around it’s neck hung the huge bracelet.
“She’s using it as a collar...”
“Oh! Isn’t that cute?”
Snow looked down to see Serah standing next to him. She was petting “Mary-poo” on the head. The stone on the bracelet around her neck twinkled in the light, as the dog wagged her tail furiously.
“Oh, let’s just forget about those then...”
“Yeah... Lightning already has to wear something around her wrist. Some sort of machine. Not always though. I guess it depends on the job.”
“Then let’s go to the next one...”
They were talking about completely different things, but Snow didn’t bother to correct her. They moved on to the next table.
“Hmm... earrings?” But Serah already had her cat earrings. If he gave her new ones she wouldn’t be able to wear those anymore.
“And it’s not like she has four ears anyway...”
“Hmm? Four what?”
Nothing, nothing, Snow said, waving his hands. He had accidentally spoken aloud again.
“Wait a minute... there would be four.” If you put both him and Serah together, that would be four ears. Just buy one of them and split it between the two of them.
“Snow? Are you alright? You’ve been acting oddly...”
“Uh... really?” Oops. He was about to tell her to just forget about it and help him pick out some earrings, when a voice caught his attention.
“Heeey, look at this heart-shaped one!”
The person speaking didn’t sound very bright. Snow knew he shouldn’t turn and look, but he couldn’t help it.
“Oh don’t be so silly Meemee!”
It was a young couple who obviously didn’t much care about how they looked. Despite the fact that the store was crowded, there was a large empty space around them. They were wound so closely together that it didn’t look physically possible them to still be standing. Surely there was a limit to how close to people could stand to each other? Weren’t they breaking the laws of physics? Then Snow got a good look at their ears. They were both wearing two halves of the same set of earrings.
Snow looked around the shop and saw yet another couple wearing the same pair of earrings. Even the couple with children in tow were wearing matching ones. Apparently this was popular.
“Well then, I guess I can forget about that...”
Snow had never liked doing things that were popular. He just hated doing the same thing as everyone else. This wasn’t just a simple present he was giving her, this was for his marriage proposal. He couldn’t give her something ordinary.
“Should we go to a different store?”
“Yeah, I don’t think I’ll find anything here that I can give to Lightning...”
“She is the raid leader.”
“That’s true!” Serah said, laughing.
“But you’re right, it is pretty difficult to find something...” Snow had thought this would be easy. He thought he would have no problem finding something that could show her his feelings.
“I’m sorry for dragging you along with me...”
“No, that’s not what I meant. It’s just, I’m trying to find something to show someone how I feel, you know? But nothing seems good enough. None of it seems right.”
It didn’t seem he could find anything that would be good enough to show her how he felt about her. Unless he could give her all of Cocoon.
“Yeah, that’s why I never know what to get her. I always think there must be something better out there.” Then Serah smiled. “But you know? When you see how happy they are with what you’ve given them, all those worries go away!”
“I see...”
“It’s true. Hey wait, Snow? What was that about your feelings?”
“Uh, nothing! Absolutely nothing! Alright, let’s look for another place.”
Oops, he had slipped up again. How many times was he going to have to distract her? He was beginning to lose confidence in himself. They left the store.
“After all, it’s not like there is only this one store.” There will be other accessory shops, Snow thought. Then he turned around and saw a pair of necklaces in the display window. The shop had been so crowded when they had entered it, he hadn’t seen them before.
“Sorry, can you go on ahead?”
“What’s up?”
“Bathroom.”
Serah laughed and waved her hand at him as she walked away.
“Excuse me? I’d like to take a look at that necklace in the window...” Snow called out to one of the shop attendants. He was startled to realize he knew the person. “Sonia!?”
“Snow! It’s been such a long time.”
Sonia had grown up in the same town that Snow had. She was three years older, and like a sister to him. A very scary sister.
“How long has it been?”
“Since we were kids.” She said smiling. Then she gestured to a nearby attendant and ordered them to take the necklaces out of the window. It seemed nothing had changed about her.
“Yes ma’am.” The attendant said, bowing to her. Snow was surprised. Apparently she wasn’t just being her usual bossy self, she was actually in charge around here.
“Sonia, are you actually in charge of this place?”
”Well, it hasn’t even been a month yet. This has always been a popular store, so it’s really stressful running this place.”
That must be why this store had become so popular all of a sudden, Snow thought. It was all due to Sonia’s work.
“What were you doing before you came here?”
“I was at the main store in Palumpolum. Ever since graduation.”
She hadn’t even lived in the same area as Snow for a year before she went off to a boarding school. In Cocoon, as long as you have the desire and ability you can enter into any school you want to. The Sanctum pays for all of your tuition, so it isn’t a problem for orphans or single-parent children. The fal’Cie and Sanctum provide security over Cocoon. As long as you haven’t broken any laws, you are able to live as you wish.
But Snow always felt there was something wrong with this way of life. It just didn’t sit well with him. It was because he could take anything from the Sanctum that he wished, that he took as little as possible.
So they farmed, and hunted monsters for themselves. They tried to do things in their own way. Of course, they couldn’t do everything themselves.
“Snow, don’t tell me you don’t have a job? Are you just laying around doing nothing?”
“No, that’s not...”
“Snow! You’re an adult now, you can’t keep doing this forever.”
“But that’s not...” Her lack of listening skills had remained unchanged, it seemed. She had always acted as though she was everyone’s mother.
“That girl you were with, that’s your girlfriend right?”
“Yeah...?”
“Well then, for her sake at least, get a job and do something with yourself! You don’t want her to cry, do you?”
“I would never make her cry! I’m going to make Serah the happiest woman on Cocoon!” Everyone around him looked up in surprise, and he realized he had been yelling. Even the shop attendant who was getting the necklaces had a shocked look on his face.
“You haven’t changed a bit.”
“I could say the same to you, Sonia.”
“But not as much as you.” She laughed, as she took the necklaces from the shop attendant. A small sculpture of Cocoon done in metal, along with a ring, hung from a chain.
He had liked it as soon as he saw it. He had thought he wouldn’t be able to express his feelings for Serah unless he gave her all of Cocoon. No, not even all of Cocoon would be enough. So he would give her two Cocoons, one they each could wear...
“Isn’t this nice? I’m friends with the person who made these. Doesn’t it just say ‘the happiest couple in Cocoon’?"
“The happiest couple in Cocoon...? Yeah...”
Nothing could be more perfect to give to Serah. He would make her the happiest bride on Cocoon.
“Wait a moment while I wrap these up.”
“No no, that’s okay. I don’t want to make Serah wait much longer.”
After he paid for them he left the shop, hold the necklaces in his hands.
“Hey, Snow!”
Snow burst out of the store in a hurry. He had been so happy to talk to an old friend, that he spoken with her longer than he’d meant to. If he wasted more time than it would have taken him to use the bathroom, Serah would come looking for him. He couldn’t have that happening.
He looked around him, but Serah was no where to be seen. Somehow he’d managed to avoid her seeing him come out of the store. No, he was still holding the necklace. He tucked it into his pocket. It felt warm.
“The happiest in Cocoon... alright!” He clenched both his fists, and nodded. Tomorrow he would ask Serah to marry him, then wish on the fireworks for their happiness.
Serah didn’t know what her Focus was, and her time was short. When he thought about that, he felt as though he were looking down from a cliff into a stormy ocean. Then he starts to feel that there might be no place that they will be able to run.
But he couldn’t think like that, for Serah’s sake. It would only make her worry. So he decided to believe there was a bright future ahead of them. The cliff they were standing on might be steep, but the ocean beyond was clear and beautiful.
“Snow!” He heard behind him. Turning around he saw Serah running towards him, waving her hand.
“I found a present!” She said, waving him to come closer.
“You were looking for a good luck charm, right?”
“Right. Something she could carry with her, something that she would carry with her.”
They were standing in front of a store that sold bladed weapons. Serah grinned, and pointed to something in the window.
“This?” A survival knife. It was undecorated, and actually looked functional. It didn’t look like something you would give as a birthday present. “... why?”
“Well, I thought since I want to get her a good luck charm, a blade would be perfect. They say a blade can be used to cut your connections with evil.”
“Cut connections with evil...?” He had heard of swords, but this was a survival knife. That was a little bit different.
“And I read in a book once, that with just one knife a person can survive through lots of things.” Serah said, her tone serious. Her eyes had a faraway look. “Because of her job, she has to go to lots of different places. With her job, she doesn’t ever know exactly what will happen. I want her to be able to survive whatever happens out there, and come back home safe.”
“And so you want to give her a survival knife.”
“Is that strange?”
“No, no it’s not strange.”
To survive whatever happens. That was a wish he could make for themselves.
“Alright! Let’s get it.”
Serah nodded, smiling. Snow put his arms around Serah’s slim shoulders, and opened the door of the shop.

Part VII: Tomorrow

"It was on that day, the tragedy fell upon us."

It was on that day, the tragedy fell upon us.

On the earth of the great spirit of Pulse, a terrible creature flew from the den of Lindzei.

With it’s cursed right hand it rent the earth, splitting it into one thousand fragments which flew to strike the people who lived on the land.

With it’s cursed left hand it tore down the mountains, crumbling them into ten thousand fragments which flew to slaughter the creatures that crawled along the land.

With both of it’s cursed hands it pulled up the life giving river and sent it crashing down on both the people and the creatures of the land and washed them away.

It devoured the fruits of the earth which would become food for the people. It took the fertile lands with it hands, rolling it up and carrying it away. Metals which slept deep within the earth it tore out with it’s cursed right hand, stole with it’s cursed left hand, and then this too, it carried away.

Buildings it turned to rubble, and carried away without a trace left behind.

The only thing wasted was the countless lives of the people.

Screams of pain and terror filled the earth, but the destruction continued. Soon the only sound left was the silence of death.

On completing it’s atrocious acts it flew once more into the sky. Only two children, now homeless and shaking, watched it as it went. Watching it return to that den of demons, that round den of thieves which floated in the sky.

In the eyes of one child anger was born, and in the eyes of the other sadness.

On this day, the tragedy fell, and two seeds were planted in the earth.



"It was on that day, two girl children entered the temple."

It was on that day, two girl children entered the temple.

One already had the eyes of an adult, while the other still had the eyes of a child. Priests in clothes of red, black and purple led the girl with the eyes of an adult, while the girl with the eyes of a child followed after.

Before the endless stairs, the red priest said to the girl children:

“You must leave your polluted weapons behind. From here up on to the chamber of the fal’Cie, it is forbidden to take the filth of earth”

The girl children left their weapons at that place.

“You’ll give me a better weapon once I’m a l’Cie, right?” The girl with the eyes of an adult spoke, using words that did not befit that place.

The three priests did not heed her words, simply ordering them to follow.

As they climbed the stairs, the each of the girls kept secret the feeling in each of their hearts. They had kept it secret for this day, until this day, forever.

They climbed the stairs and then would stop, lifting themselves in prayer, before continuing on up the steps. This they did ten and three times, before they reached the gate of beginnings. Then the black priest said to the girl children:

“This door is a door of trials. It will turn away those who hold evil in their hearts, and lead on those who hold the holy spirit.”

The girl with the eyes of an adult knelt before the door, and prayed. The girl with the eyes of a child followed suit. The symbol on the door glowed red, and the door opened.

“Thou have been accepted by the gate of beginnings. Take your heart which contains the holy spirit and continue on to the chamber of the fal’Cie.”

The three priests and the two girl children passed through the door, and left behind the hallway of ten and three.

“Cheer up!”

“But...”

“It’s not you who will be turned into a l’Cie, but me. There’s no reason for you to be scared.”

“But...”

“Don’t worry.”

The girl with the eyes of an adult smiled, while the girl with the eyes of a child stared at her feet. The three priests said nothing.

They climbed the stairs and then would stop, lifting themselves in prayer, before continuing on up the steps. This they did ten and three times, before they reached the gate of the center. Then the purple priest said to the girl children:

“This door is a door of trials. It will turn away those who hold weakness in their hearts, and lead on those who hold strength.”

The girl with the eyes of an adult knelt before the door, and prayed. The girl with the eyes of a child followed suit. The symbol on the door glowed red, and the door opened.

“Thou have been accepted by the gate of the center. Take your heart which contains strength and continue on to the chamber of the fal’Cie.”

The three priests and the two girl children passed through the door, and left behind the hallway of ten and three.

“Damn these are some long stairs. We could have just taken an elevator or something yeah? This is overdoing it just a tad, don’t you think?”

“You shouldn’t stand stuff like that! The priests said this is supposed to be a test for you to become a l’Cie.”

“A test is great and all, but these priests are so weak, what can they do?”

The girl with the eyes of an adult laughed, while the girl with the eyes of a child chided her. The three priests, of course, said nothing.

They climbed the stairs and then would stop, lifting themselves in prayer, before continuing on up the steps. This they did ten and three times, before they reached the gate of endings. Then the red priest said to the girl children:

“This door is a door of trials. It will turn away those who hold greed in their hearts, and lead on those who hold honor.”

The girl with the eyes of an adult knelt before the door, and prayed. The girl with the eyes of a child followed suit. The symbol on the door glowed red, and the door opened.

“Thou have been accepted by the gate of endings. Take your heart which contains honor and continue on to the chamber of the fal’Cie.”

The three priests and the two girl children passed through the door, and left behind the hallway of ten and three, reaching the final stair.

At the top of the stairway ten priests stood, holy spears in hand, guarding the door to the fal’Cie.

“This is as far as you go.”

“But...”

“It will be alright.”

The three priests led the girl with the eyes of an adult up the final stair, then ten and three priests surrounded her and lifted their arms in prayer.

“Chosen one.”

“One who will become a l’Cie.”

“Leave behind evil.”

“Hold close the holy spirit.”

“Leave behind weakness.”

“Hold close strength.”

“Leave behind greed.”

“Hold close honor.”

“Continue on to the chamber of the fal’Cie.”

“Receive your power.”

“Receive your Focus.”

“Become one with the fal’Cie.”

“And stand against Heaven.”

The door began to open, and the girl with the eyes of an adult left the priests behind to walk through it. She yelled:

“Fal’Cie Anima! I have something I need to say to you. Are you listening!?”

The priests held onto the girl, but she shook them off and continued yelling.

“Why are you here? It should be easy for a fal’Cie like you to crush Cocoon. Why don’t you go destroy Lindzei right now? Instead of making all these l’Cie, wouldn’t it be faster to just get all the fal’Cie together and go to fight them yourselves? Can you not figure that out for yourself, even though you’re a fal’Cie?”

The priests raised their spears and held the girl down.

“Why you insolent...! This is fal’Cie Anima, how dare you speak to it this way!”

The girl shook them off and grabbed one of their spears. With it in hand, she stormed into the fal’Cie’s chamber.

“How many l’Cie have become Cieth while you sit here and do nothing? How many homes have been lost? While your friends do nothing but dig holes!”

The priests chased after the girl.

“How dare...! You shall not take another step into the fal’Cie’s chamber!”

The girl laid flat all the priests who followed her with her spear, and continued on into the chamber.

“I’ll become a l’Cie for you. I’ll destroy as many demons as you like. But I just can’t stand that you’re sitting here doing nothing!”

The red priest, the black priest, and the purple priest stood in front of the fal’Cie and pushed the girl back.

“Do you truly think a girl like you could have anything to say to the fal’Cie? Leave here!”

“I’m only telling the truth! That fal’Cie is a fool! Just what does it think about human lives? Nothing!”

The purple priest answered coldly:

“Human lives? They’re nothing but orphans.”

The black priest sneered:

“The only reason they take care of orphans is so they can become l’Cie. There is no other way to use them.”

The red priest spat:

“You’re nothing but a fool. You couldn’t even read the true intentions of those who took care of you.”

The girl’s eyes burned with anger.

“Don’t insult our home!”

In rage the girl stabbed the red priest, then defeated both the black priest and the purple priest. She turned to face fal’Cie Anima.

“This is all your fault! Our friends being turned into Cieth, the Cocoon fal’Cie coming here and doing as it pleases. It’s all because of you! I’ll destroy you!”

The girl rushed it with her spear, but its hands came out of no where, hitting her and throwing her to the floor. Her spear flung far away from her.

The ten priests rushed in and surrounded her, pointing at her with their spears.

“Foolish girl, you must die!”

“Traitor, you must die!”

The girl didn’t move. The ten priests slowly raised their spears.

“Please wait!”

The girl with the eyes of a child ran to her side and covered her with her body.

“Please forgive her!”

“She has insulted fal’Cie Anima, and treated our priests as fools. Her sins are too great.”

“Then let me... let me atone for them!”

The fallen girl’s lips moved, pleading her to stop. But the girl with the eyes of a child paid her no heed, yelling:

“Please make the both of us into l’Cie! Into l’Cie that will fight against Cocoon!”

All ten spears stopped at once, and their bearers looked down on the girls. They gathered together to speak.

“You can’t...”

“No. It will be my turn next, anyway. I want us to be together.”

One girl held the other, and smiled.

“Ever since we entered the temple, I had been thinking about it. I would say, make both of us into l’Cie.”

“But...”

“We might be orphans, but we were raised together. We’re family. We can protect everyone together.”

The ten priests surrounded the two girls and raised their arms in prayer, praying that these two be turned into l’Cie.

“We’ll be together forever... no matter what happens, we’ll never be apart.”

On this day, two l’Cie were born.



“We’ll be together forever... no matter what happens, we’ll never be apart.”

“We’ll be together forever... no matter what happens, we’ll never be apart.”
That’s what I promised so long ago, Vanille whispered as she walked along the promenade, looking out towards the ocean. In the distance you could see the temple. Fal’Cie Anima was still inside there.
“I’m sorry I have to break that promise...” She apologized to Fang, wherever Fang might be. Perhaps she was at the temple, even now. Surrounded by Cocoon soldiers, no one would be able to get in or out.

Yesterday she saw it on the news. A Pulse fal’Cie was found in the Bodhum Vestige. She had stopped at a rest area in the shopping mall. A screen was on the wall, and on it the temple could be clearly seen. Surrounding the temple were army vehicles and armed soldiers.
During the middle of the report, the people around her began to panic. Knowing that she must get to the temple, Vanille ran toward it, only to look up and see airships above them.
The news ran on every screen and blared from every speaker. Bodhum would now be barricaded for the protection of Cocoon’s citizens. Their worry turned to anger, then the soldiers began making threats against the civilians.
This so frightened Vanille that she fled the shopping mall, running along the promenade, returning to a place where she could see the temple. But what she found there...
All the roads leading to the temple were blocked off. This was something that hadn’t been shown on the news. Military vehicles surrounded the place, there was no way to even get close to it anymore.
No, she didn’t even think she would be able to stay here for very long, even to look at it. Soldiers were coming closer, had they seen her? Not taking any chances, Vanille turned right around and ran back to the shopping mall.
They hadn’t followed her. That must mean they hadn’t planned on capturing her. Perhaps they had just wanted to tell her that the area was off limits.
It was too late now, but she wished she hadn’t left her weapon behind in the temple. Now she was all alone in a city she didn’t know, unable to protect herself. She felt like crying.
Fang... where are you?
At the energy plant Fang had acted as a decoy to allow Vanille to escape. She had run straight at the soldiers, all alone. Vanille had managed to escape, but ever since then she had seen no sign of Fang.
I want Fang...
Vanille walked, hardly realizing where she was going, that thought circling her mind. When she looked up, she found she was now at Bodhum Station. Then Vanille thought, perhaps Fang hadn’t returned to Bodhum after all? She could still be somewhere in Euride Gorge!
I’ll be able to find her if I go to Euride!
Vanille ran towards the station, but again was surprised by what she found. The walkway was completely blocked off. Then she remembered hearing on the news that the whole city had been barricaded. There were people in front of the station, they looked like tourists, arguing with the soldiers.
“We aren’t Bodhum citizens!”
“I have to return to Eden tomorrow! I have an important meeting.”
“We’re from Palumpolum! At least let my son return home.”
Everyone was trying their best to make themselves heard. I’ve seen something like this before, Vanille thought. But then they knew if they waited they would be able to return home. But they still had looked worried...

It was eight days ago. After the accident both Euride Station and the airship landing strip had been closed off. Armed soldiers had come, and the people there had argued with them, demanding to be freed. Though they had complained that they needed to get to work, or that they were going to miss their airship flight home, they still followed the soldiers’ directions. Because the soldiers told them that once they had gone through an ID check, they would be put on the next train to Bodhum. So they gathered at the plaza in front of the energy plant, and waited in the tents that had been set up for them.
Of course, since Vanille is not from Cocoon, she didn’t have ID. When she searched around for a chance to escape, her eyes fell on soldiers placing cards on a machines. ID must mean those cards they had picked up earlier, she realized. They had stolen them from those two boys they had met in town. Because of these cards they had been able to get food and ride on the train to Euride.
Vanille took out the stolen card and looked at it. She wasn’t sure if she could even use it. They had only figured out how to use Fang’s card by accident, and had yet to try this one. What would she do if she couldn’t use it? Even worse, what if they found out she had stolen it...
“Come on, give me your card already.”
Vanille looked up quickly, and found a soldier holding a slim machine standing right in front of her. Hoping it would work, but not feeling too confident, Vanille held out her card.
She wondered if they would drag her into a different room for questioning. Or perhaps they would tie her up immediately. Or maybe... maybe they would shoot her where she stood. She squeezed her eyes shut.
“Would you hurry up?”
I knew it, Vanille thought. She slumped. It would be so pathetic to be captured now, but there were so many soldiers surrounding her, and then there were all these people...
“What the hell are you doing? I need to get on to the next one.”
Vanille looked up in surprise. The soldier returned the card to her.
“What?”
“Once you’ve checked out, go stand in the line over there.”
Before she could ask what he meant, the soldier turned to the next person and took their card. It seemed the stolen card had been accepted as her ID. Vanille lined up with the others who had been checked out, and boarded the next train to Bodhum. She waited on the station platform, hoping that Fang would arrive, but saw no sign of her.
She returned to the temple, but there was no food, and she couldn’t sleep. It was her first night alone, ever, she realized. Fang had always been by her side. At their village, the other children had been there too. Once they became l’Cie, the two of them had been alone again, but she always had Fang to sleep next to. She had never slept alone.
Looking for food, Vanille went to the shopping mall. But she had never used this card before, and she wasn’t sure she could do it. While she had been able to use it as ID in Euride, she didn’t know if she could use it for shopping. Vanille spent a few minutes standing in front of the shop, nervously clutching the card in her hands.
It was seeing that white bird again that made her pluck up her courage and finally enter the store. It was the same strange looking bird they had seen when they had stolen these cards. It stood perched on the far side roof, staring down at her. It scared Vanille so much that she ran into the shop just to get away from it. Now in the shop, the only thing she could do was follow the other customers example. She made her purchases, and used the card to check out. It was easier than she thought it would be.
Now she could see what their life was like. Cocoon was like a peaceful paradise. Perhaps because they lived such quiet lives, the people here were peaceful, and that was why she never felt in danger as long as she was within the city.
Despite being alone, without Fang, she didn’t feel nervous here anymore. But she couldn’t forget the girl and young boy that had gotten mixed up in their problems. The guilt she felt towards them was like a thorn sticking in her chest.
And then Vanille met that girl on the beach...

“What are you doing over there?”
She felt a gun at her back. Vanille came back from her musings with a start. It was a soldier. PSICOM. Whenever that name was mentioned, the expression on peoples’ faces turned stony and cold.
Until a few days ago, no soldiers had been here. Everyone had looked calm and peaceful. She had allowed herself to feel that way too...
“I’m sorry!” Vanille said. Perhaps it was the tearful sound in her voice, but he lowered his gun and spoke in a softer voice.
“They’re starting check in at the station. You’d better hurry.”
Vanille ran without turning back. She wouldn’t be coming here again. From the moment they announced it on the news yesterday, this paradise had disappeared.

A Pulse fal’Cie had been found. The whole of Bodhum was being barricaded. That alone was already the worst possible news for the people who lived there. Just those two announcements, and the city was in an uproar. Was there anyone who imagined it could become worse?
It had been in the afternoon when the news had broke. Vanille had been unable to return to the temple or find Fang, and so she was walking along the shopping mall. She tried to stay in well populated places, away from soldiers.
A Purge to Pulse. At first Vanille didn’t know what that meant. She might not have been the only one. When the news was broadcast, everyone grew quiet.
Then she realized they were afraid. People were running around, screaming and crying. Maybe they thought they could run away from their fate.
Vanille could only watch them in amazement She had known that the people on Cocoon hated Pulse, but she realized that she hadn’t really understood. They were so scared of Pulse that they lost all reason.
Where they were running to, she didn’t know. Perhaps they were running to the station, or their home. Everywhere small fights broke out. Women spoke in shrill voices, and children fell and broke into tears.
Vanille stood close to the building, and watch them. She shivered, and couldn’t move a step from where she stood.
Are these the same people who had watched the fireworks the night before? she thought. Those people had fun, laughing and talking with each other. Those people had been happy. Their faces had been filled with hope as they prayed for their dreams to come true. Not even one day had passed since then, and now...
She was scared, and sad, and felt like crying. A fiery pain burned behind her eyes, and she looked down at her feet. Then, out of the noise, words reached her ears. Vanille looked up in surprise. She thought she’d heard someone say “The Pulse fal’Cie will be sent along with the Purge train to be returned to Pulse.” She would have to listen to the news program one more time, just to make sure.
Fal’Cie Anima would be sent to Pulse, it would be returned to Gran Pulse...
Was it true? But then, what about their Focus? No, even if fal’Cie Anima weren’t in Cocoon, their Focus wouldn’t change. It was both she and Fang who would complete their Focus, not the fal’Cie...
Then she realized, if she remained in Bodhum she would be Purged along with everyone else. Not that she had much of a choice, since all ways in and out of Bodhum were closed off. But if she returned to Gran Pulse, she wouldn’t be able to complete her Focus.
Her legs grew weak, and she slumped onto the ground. How could she have not realized this before? She held her knees, and stayed that way until night fell.
When she finally stood up, she was surprised to see it was night. There was no one left in the shopping mall. Vanille slipped past the soldiers, and walked down to the beach. This was where everyone had stood to watch the fireworks. Of course no one was here, at this time. The cafe was closed. Even though it had only been one day, it seemed as though a completely different place from the night before. All was quiet, the only sound was of the waves rolling in and out.
Unlike Gran Pulse, this ocean didn’t smell of salt. But Vanille had liked it here. “Goodbye...” she whispered, and turned back the way she had came. She walked a little further, and came upon a field. It was the field they had stolen vegetables from that first day they had woken up. The smell of earth and growing things overwhelmed her. Perhaps Fang will come here, she thought, and tears ran down her cheeks. I know, she thought, Fang won’t come. I’ll never see her again, never again...
Vanille cried. As a small child cries, yelling and screaming. And then, she slept.

The shopping mall, as always, was filled with people. But unlike yesterday, no one was running around. As one, they all moved in the same direction. The expression on their faces was dark, and they looked down at their feet as they walked. They were heading towards the station to board the Purge train.
The people of Cocoon thought that “Pulse is hell”. Vanille had realized watching everyone yesterday that they equate being sent to Pulse as a death sentence. But it’s not like that, Vanille couldn’t help but think. Sure the climate is harsh, and there are many vicious monsters there. You wouldn’t be able to walk around there weaponless like you can on Cocoon. But Fang and herself were born and raised on Gran Pulse. You could live there as long as everyone worked together.
On Gran Pulse there was a wide open fields and an endless sky. There was sunlight, and greenery. Vanille wanted to show all this to the people of Cocoon. Even though she knew it was impossible.
It was quiet. Too quiet for how many people were here. When she had first arrived here, it had been so loud and noisy she had thought it was a festival. And after the uproar from yesterday...
Had they calmed down after a nights sleep? Or had they given up already? Not one single person looked angry, their faces were expressionless.
“I’m sorry...” Vanille apologized again. She had already apologized so many times she had lost count. It was their fault this was happening to these people. Their fault and no one else's.
Because we woke up, she thought.
And the girl who was made into a l’Cie by fal’Cie Anima. And the little boy who was made into a l’Cie by the Cocoon fal’Cie. How could she ever atone for the crimes she committed against them?
She couldn’t turn them back to normal. She wouldn’t be able to change their fate. At least, she thought, I can bring no harm to their world, to their loved ones. I can do that much for them.
At some point she realized the number of people had grown. Everyone was so quiet she hadn’t noticed. Now there were as many people as there had been at the fireworks festival, slowly walking towards the station.
Finally the station building came within sight. A soldier could be heard, yelling “Would anyone who has not checked in their baggage please come this way?” There had been baggage check-in the day before, so the line by the counter was short.
Once she entered inside the building, she saw soldiers with megaphones calling out instructions. Their uniforms were different from the other soldiers she had seen, so Vanille thought they must have a higher rank.
“Everyone! Please follow directions and do not step out of line! Your baggage will be returned to you once you’ve arrived on Pulse.”
The gun he held in his hands made Vanille a little uncomfortable. He’s just giving directions, why does he need to be armed? Vanille thought. All the people here are calm and peaceful, why does he need a weapon? The other soldiers also held guns. Even though they kept saying these people were being “transferred” it was far more like the were being escorted out of the city by force. But, perhaps because the people on Cocoon are so peaceful, no one fought back. They all lined up quietly, without a word.
Or perhaps not quite. Somewhere she heard someone yelling.
“Hey you! Don’t get out of line!”
Perhaps someone had tried to run. The crowd of people moved slightly. They were restless, perhaps hoping that at least one of them had found a means of escape.
A gun shot sounded. From the screams you could tell it was no idle blast. The line of people shook, breaking into panic. The soldiers pointed their guns at the people, and everything grew still and quiet.
“Please do not move from the line. This is for your own safety.”
Of course, no one actually believed that. They only kept quiet because they didn’t wish to die here. Even though what waited for them, beyond this world, was hell.
The line once again flowed smoothly. Vanille spied a woman talking with a soldier. She noticed the woman because she looked exactly like Serah, the girl who turned into a Pulse l’Cie.
The woman handed her weapon to the soldier, and stood in line. My guilt is making me imagine things, Vanille thought. Just because she has the same hair color, it makes her face look just like Serah’s...
A middle-aged man stood behind the woman. His hair looked just like a birds nest, or so Vanille thought, but then a real bird actually popped out of it.
“What?”
It was a baby chocobo.
“Why does that guy have a chocobo living on his head?” It was so funny, Vanille began to giggle. Then that someone ran into her from behind. Or rather, she ran into someone, since she wasn’t looking where she was going. She tried to catch her balance, but it was too late.
“Oops!” She slipped and tumbled down onto the ground. Fortunately she didn’t hurt herself, except for perhaps her pride.
“Are you okay?” Someone asked. Just as she heard the voice, she felt a hand grab hers and pull her upright.
“Did you get hurt?” A kind looking woman was looking her over. Vanille nodded, and the woman smiled.
“Oh, what a relief.”
She looks like a mother, Vanille whispered quietly. Then she saw a boy standing beside her that looked like he could be her son. She really was a mother.
“Are you from here?”
“No, I’m not.”
“Oh, you too? We’re from Palumpolum.”
A place Vanille had heard of before.
“And where did you come from?”
“Um... far.”
“Far?”
Vanille nodded. The woman didn’t ask any more questions, probably thinking Vanille had a reason for not saying where she was from. In fact, she probably had other things to worry about. Her son was shaking, and wouldn’t look up.
Vanille couldn’t decided whether she should line up behind these two, or the woman who looks like Serah. But she didn’t take too long to decide, standing behind the kind woman and her son. If she was going to be treated like a prisoner, she at least wanted to be with people who were kind.
The soldiers explained that in the best case scenario they would arrive at Pulse sometime today. At worst it would be tomorrow.
Once we’ve arrived in Gran Pulse I hope I can help them a little bit, Vanille thought. I’m sorry Fang, but I’m going back to Gran Pulse with the fal’Cie. I’m sorry I broke our promise. I’m sorry I have to leave you on Cocoon all alone...
Once she left Cocoon, she wouldn’t be able to complete her Focus. She realized this yesterday, when she heard that fal’Cie Anima would be sent back to Pulse. Once she realized there was still something she could do, she felt relieved.
“If reality is too painful, you can just run away.”
Serah had said that four days ago, when they had met on the beach. Those words had saved her, and pushed her into action. Because of those words she was here now.
Once I get on that train, she thought, I’ll be running away from my Focus. Then I won’t have to hurt anyone. I’ll probably become a Cieth, but there will still be some time left before that happens.
”If you look at anything from a distance, you can see a way through it.”
Just as Serah had said, once she looked at her problem from a distance, she could see a different path. It just might work. If she just runs away, it might all work out...
She only worried about leaving Fang behind, but she knew she would be alright. Her mark was burned, so she probably wouldn’t turn into a Cieth, and Fang would be able to live on her own. The only thing was, she knew Fang would be angry. I’m sorry, she whispered one more time.
She put her fingers together and prayed. For a friend she wouldn’t see again. For a promise she couldn’t keep.
The soldiers began directing people into the train. At the latest they would arrive tomorrow, Vanille remembered them saying.
For a moment, Vanille felt her footsteps tremble. She suddenly felt as though the day they became l’Cie was only yesterday, and that tomorrow was so far away she could hardly reach it. But why? She couldn’t be worried. She was finally returning to Gran Pulse, she told herself. She loved the smell of the wind, the flowers shimmering in the breeze, running out under an open sky. There were all the stars at night, and of course the people waiting back home. They were all her family, so she was sure they would be happy to see her.
Tomorrow I’ll be returning home... Vanille thought to herself. The line moved forward.
